ANALYN P. DEOGRACIAS  
+63 917 569 7948  
analyn.deogracias@gmail.com  
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT  
Unit5 Lot5 Sionil Townhomes El Dorado  
MASTER IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION  
St., Don Bosco, Parañaque City 
 
SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS  
• Country controller in-charge of overseeing the entire finance and audit process for 
multiple legal entities under APAC region  
• In-depth experience in financial reporting and end-to-end management accounting.  
• Skilled in streamlining accounting processes, improving efficiency, and implementing 
robust internal controls within both country-specific and shared service models.  
• Migrated RTR process and financial reporting from individual country operations to a 
centralized shared service center, streamlining operations across multiple regions.  
• Lead, provide mentorship and manage accounting services teams in a fast-paced 
environment.   
• Knowledgeable in different accounting software (SAP, Oracle NetSuite, Oracle Fusion, 
QuickBooks)  
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE   
Controllership - monitors compliance with tax, statutory, and other finance regulatory 
requirements. Serves as main contact for finance related issues from and/or to external 
and internal stakeholders.  
• Coordinates with Finance Service Providers for period accounting close, and other 
technical analysis for management and business reporting.  
• Ensures that all accounting policies and internal controls are consistently applied as 
recommended by the Internal Audit team.  
• Performs fluctuation analysis for both Profit and Loss, and Balance Sheet accounts 
including review of post-close account reconciliations  
 
Management Accounting Services - reviews end-to-end accounting processes 
including, but not limited to, order to cash, procure to pay, records to report and financial 
asset functions using various accounting software.  
• Supervising the maintenance of the general ledger, ensuring all transactions are 
recorded correctly, and reconciling accounts ti maintain financial accuracy.  
• Streamlining accounting processes to improve efficiency, reduce errors, and enhance 
the accuracy of financial information by implementing best practices for internal controls.  
• Team management ensuring that SLAs and KPIs are met  
 
Compensation and Benefits - overseeing organization’s employee compensation and 
benefits program to ensure they are competitive and aligned with the company goals.  
• Administering employee benefits packages such as health insurance, retirement plans, 
paid time off and wellness programs.  
• Monitoring compensation and benefits expenses, preparing reports, managing budgets 
to align with financial goals  
• Creating and revisiting policies related to pay, bonuses, promotions, and benefits.  
• Providing guidance to management on compensation-related issues and addressing 
employee inquiries about benefits  
 

KEY SKILLS  
• General Accounting  
• Task Migration                  • Stakeholder Management  
• Controllership  
           • Gross Margin Analysis  
• Continuous Improvement  
• Account Reconciliation  • People Management        • Project Management 
 
EMPLOYMENT HISTORY  
 
MaceTpm Inc 
Senior Business Finance Partner 
May 2025 – September 2025 
 
 
Ernst & Young Global Delivery Services 
Manager  
January 2022 – May 2025  
McCann Worldgroup Philippines Inc   
Compensation and Rewards Manager  
Goodyear Regional Business Services Inc  
October 2020 - January 2022  
Senior Team Lead 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 2019 - October 2020  
RTR Senior Financial Accountant 
 
 
 
 
June 2017 - December 2019  
Corporate Accountant 
 
 
 
 
September 2014 - June 2017  
ABS-CBN Shared Service Center PTE. Ltd.  
May 2013 - September 2014  
General Ledger Specialist  
 
Isla Lipana, a member firm of 
 
Pricewaterhouse Cooper  
Associate  
November 2011 - May 2013  
Maersk Global Service Centre Ltd. Phils. 
 
Finance Specialist  
EDUCATION  
November 2009 - November 2011  
Master in Business Administration 
Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng Maynila  
 
August 2013 - April 2018  
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy 
University of Luzon, Dagupan City  
 
June 2005 - October 2008  
Certified Public Accountant  
ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND TRAININGS  
 
May 2011  
• EY Top Performing Team (2023)  
• Migrated the Philippine and Japan market to 
Goodyear Shared Service  
• Gamification Workshop  
• Behavior Based Interview Workshop  
• Inside Out Coaching for People 
Leaders  
• Developing Cross-Cultural Intelligence