BENNETH GUINEDEN MABIASAN 
29C Reagan St., Phase 4A, Parkwood Executive Greens, Maybunga, Pasig City 
E-mail: bgmabiasan@yahoo.com 
Moblie No. 09257809107 
 
SUMMARY: 
 
A results-driven Certified Public Accountant with extensive experience in fiscal 
management, financial reporting, and team leadership. I have a proven record of 
developing and implementing financial and operational controls that have 
improved efficiency, reduced costs, and enhanced reporting accuracy. I am 
highly proficient in a variety of ERP and Accounting Systems and have a track 
record of leading seamless transitions through data migration, process 
documentation, and user training. 
 
WORK EXPERIENCES: 
 
Freelance Accountant 
November 2023 to Present 
 
 
Financial Planning and Analysis – identify areas for growth and risks through analysis of 
financial data and develop/propose strategies based on these analyses. 
 
Budgeting, Forecasting, and Cashflow Management 
 
Process streamlining/improvements to increase operational efficiency as well as align with 
changing reportorial and compliance requirements. 
 
Supported the transition from legacy systems to a newer ERP platform, ensuring that the new 
system meets business and compliance requirements and ensure transitions are seamless as 
possible. 
 
Finance Head  
 
 
Concrete Stone Corporation  
March 2022 to November 2023  
PMI Building, P. Ocampo cor. Cabanillas St., Makati City 
 
 
Directs and manages the financial operations of the company, including but not limited to 
matters relating to cash flow, regulatory compliance, financial planning and projections. 
 
Instituted provements that resulted to increased efficiencies in transactions processing, reports 
generation and submission, and the streamlining of processes to maximize personnel 
competencies reducing processing times by at least 20% and personnel headcount by 10%. 
 
Enhanced reports to identify key drivers for growth and/or cost reduction backed by financial 
data, working hand-in-hand with key stakeholders to institute improvements. 
 
Managed relationships with key stakeholders including banks and other financial institutions, 
key vendors, top customers, and government agencies. 
 
Provided financial models and forecasts to support projections for valuation and, when 
needed, presented such to creditors and prospective investors and/or investment advisors. 
 
 
Finance Manager 
 
 
hammerjack Pty. Ltd. – Philippine Branch 
June 2019 to March 2022 
 
4F Paseo Centre, Paseo de Roxas cor. Sedeno St., Makati  
 
 
Prepared reports and analyses providing guidance and insights in developing and 
implementing business changes (e.g. identifying cost-saving measures and maximization of 
available resources) to adapt to changing business conditions brought about by the 
quarantines and pandemic. 
 
Provided appropriate support and direction to the Execom on matters relating to operations 
and the company’s direction as a whole, specifically in identifying areas for growth and/or 
improvements, designing the reports and providing the analyses to keep track of the drivers 
for such.  
 

 
 
Finance Manager (Consultant) 
 Oni Distribution Corporation 
September 2018 – March 2019  
Tao Technology Center, F. Legaspi Street, Ugong, Pasig. 
 
 
Oversaw the smooth transition from the old ERP system to a newer platform to adapt to the 
global requirements of the new management. 
 
Provided support and advise, in coordination with local tax, legal and audit advisors, in 
ensuring proper regulatory and other requirements are met for the new ownership and 
management structure. 
 
Ensured continuity in the Finance Department making sure that the 40 or so retail stores are 
adequately supported. 
 
 
Financial Controller 
 
 
GHL Systems Philippines, Inc. 
December 2017 to June 2018 
 
6F One-Corporate Plaza, 645 Arnaiz Avenue, Makati City 
 
 
Decide/Recommend funding sources, investments, as well as fund allocations, determining 
the best mix of debt, equity and internal financing taking into consideration Capex of upwards 
of Php 50 Million per quarter. 
 
Created financial models and forecasts factoring in multiple possible scenarios, including 
simulations for an investment of (+/-)Php 200M with variable ROIs 
 
Initiated and completed the catch-up on financial and transactional reports, projects and 
initiatives, as well as implementing changes that streamlined processes in reporting, 
collections, and revenue recognition.  Instituted changes as well to Third Party Acquiring and 
Settlement (one of the core businesses) processes to ensure revenues are properly recognized, 
and obligations to clients (merchants) meet SLAs and agreed TATs. 
 
Finance and Accounting Manager 
Megalink Inc. 
January 2015 to December 2017 
4F One-EcomCenter Bldg. MOA Complex, Pasay City 
 
 
Prepared financial models, analyses, and reports showing financial impacts of various 
scenarios and projections relating to the transition of operations to another company, and 
business wind down. 
 
Prepared short, medium and long-term financial projections taking into consideration current 
industry and organizational changes, plans and directions. 
 
Managed the day-to-day Accounting and Treasury related functions of the company including 
the month-end closing calendar, process & review routines to ensure all transactions are 
captured in a timely basis and prepare periodic and Annual Supplementary reporting forms. 
 
Ascertain compliance with statutory and regulatory reporting requirements with the BIR, SEC 
and other relevant government agencies 
 
 
Accounting Manager  
 
Biliran Geothermal Inc. 
January 2014 to December 2014 
2107 Trade and Financial Tower, BGC, Taguig 
 
 Managed the day-today Accounting and Treasury related functions of the company. 
 Reviewed, formulated, evaluated or improved where applicable Financial and Operating 
systems and procedures to ascertain that resources are maximized and policies and procedures 
are complied with. 
 Safeguarding the resources of the company by enforcing company policies, internal controls, 
and continuously improving them to ensure smooth operation. 
 Administer project cost controls, ascertaining that budgetary and documentary controls are 
implemented.  
 Ensure the quality and integrity of financial reports and accounts reconciliation, 
 

 
 
Finance Officer  
 
 
Coca Cola Bottlers Business Services, Inc. 
July 2013 to January 2014 
 
26F Net Lima Bldg., BGC, Taguig 
 
Job Responsibilities        
 Designed and implemented standard billing models and activity-based costing for Shared 
Services, and profitability analyses per customer and per operating unit. 
 Prepared and secured approvals for corporate budgets and ensure appropriate budget 
management (revenue, expense, cash flows) throughout the year 
 Reviewed and provided management reports (e.g. profit & loss, expenses, manpower, capex) 
to stakeholders as required 
 Managed the month-end closing calendar, process & review routines to ensure all transactions 
are captured in a timely basis and prepared the related Quarterly and Annual Supplementary 
reporting forms. 
 Prepared periodic transactional and corporate, local and national taxes, ensuring propriety, 
validity, accuracy and timely filing and payment of tax returns. 
 
 
Finance Manager 
 
Marstech Trading and Services, Int’l. Inc. 
July 2011 to July 2013  
3F PRRM Bldg., Sct. Lazcano St., Cor Mo. Ignacia, Quezon City 
 
 Developed reports that provide analyses of key financial information to ensure that 
Management makes well informed decisions 
 Managed the operations of the whole Finance Department, instituting changes when 
necessary to ensure the company’s requirements are met at all times. 
 Regularly assessed team members ensuring skills and qualifications match requirements. 
 Prepared, reviewed and consolidated departmental budgets and forecasts and advised 
management and Business Units on the management and allocation of resources 
 
Chief Accountant  
 
Macropharma Corporation 
July 2004 to June 2011  
1204 Tektite Tower East, Exchange Rd., Ortigas Ctr., Pasig City 
 
 Joined as Accounting Supervisor, promoted to Financial Planning and Control Officer, then 
Chief Accountant 
 Developed and implemented financial policies and procedures in the areas of budget, cash 
management and forecasting. 
 Supervised the maintenance of the Company’s accounting system and data, and the 
presentation of financial data for both internal managerial purposes and external statutory 
requirements. 
 Ensures that the company operates in accordance with government legal and tax regulations 
seeking the most favorable tax and legal stance. 
 Supervised the accounting staff and renders coaching and mentoring session in order to 
increase employee’s efficiency and productivity 
 
Freelance/Public Practice 
March 2001 to September 2002  
 
Baguio City 
 
 
Assurance and bookkeeping services: Clients included:  an IT Company, an NGO 
(Homeowner’s Association), a recruitment agency, training center and a restaurant.  Also 
served as a guest reviewer for a local review center as well as an on-call audit staff for a local 
firm. 
 
Internal Auditor  
 
Lepanto Consolidated Mining Company 
March 2001 to Sept 2002 
20/f BA - Lepanto Building, 8747 Paseo de Roxas, Makati City 

 
Accountant/Bookkeeper  
Archie’s Theater, Bar and Billiards 
Dec 2000 to March 2001 
4/f Maharlika Livelihood Center, Magsaysay Avenue, Baguio City  
 
 
EDUCATION: 
 
College  
 
- Baguio Colleges Foundation – April, 2000 
- Bachelor of Science in Accountancy 
Secondary 
 
- Saint Louis School of Aurora Hill – March, 1996 
Elementary 
 
- Baguio Central University – March, 1992 
 
 
QUALIFICATIONS AND CORE COMPETENCIES: 
 
Certified Public Accountant (CPA): Passed the October 2000 Philippine CPA Board Exams. 
 
Financial Management: Expertise in fiscal management, financial reporting, and financial 
planning & analysis. 
Strategic Planning: Strong background in budgeting, forecasting, and capital management. 
Operational Excellence: Proven ability to implement financial and operational controls, 
streamline processes, and improve efficiency. 
ERP Systems: Proficient in Oracle Financials, SAP, and Navision among others. Experienced 
in data migration, process documentation, and user training. 
Team Leadership: Experienced in managing and mentoring finance and accounting teams. 
Software Proficiency: Proficient in word processing, spreadsheets, presentation and other 
applications (MS Office, GSuite), basic programming skills.