CLINTON S. RAMOS, CPA 
9045 San Nicolas St., Guadalupe Nuevo, Makati  
+63 917 135 5927 
clinton.singsonramos18@gmail.com 
 
 
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY 
Accountant with 8+ years of working experience in Accounting and Finance Department, 4 
years of which is in managerial position. Handled various business industries, including 
manufacturing, services, wholesale, retail, and hospitality.  
Exposed in regional and multinational experience, proficient in handling intercompany 
reconciliations, and adept at managing external auditors.  
 
WORK EXPERIENCE 
I. 
FINANCE MANAGER 
 
 
 
 
(Feb 2025 – present) 
 
Waterfront Manila Hotel and Casino (Hospitality) 
 Overseeing the functions of the whole Finance Department to ensure accurate and 
timely processing and recording of financial transactions in accordance with 
Accounting Standards and Company policies, this includes the accounting department, 
tax, purchasing, treasury, and payroll. 
 Preparation and submission of reports for Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE) and 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), both for listed and non-listed entities. 
 Preparation and analysis of Financial Statements. 
 Preparation of Financial forecast/projection. 
 Coordinating with external auditors for the preparation of the Audited Financial 
Statements. 
 Overseeing the finance department of Fort Ilocandia Resort and Hotel, a sister 
company, situated in Ilocos Norte. 
 
II. 
ACCOUNTING MANAGER  
 
 
 
(May 2022 – Dec 2024) 
 
FUJIFILM Business Innovation Philippines Corp. (Service, Sales) 
 Overseeing the functions of General Accounting to ensure accurate and timely 
recording and reporting of financial transactions in accordance with the Accounting 
Standards and Company policies and procedures. 
 Managing 4 subordinates, composed of GA Supervisor, Inventory Analyst, Payable 
Analyst, and accounting assistant. 
 Prepare and analyse financial reports for Management and Regional Reporting. 
 Collaborate with FP&A team to align financial forecast with actual result and assist in 
budgeting processes. 
 Assist in preparation of Audited Financial Statements. 
 
III. 
GENERAL LEDGER ASSISTANT MANAGER 
 
(Sep 2021 – May 2022) 
 
ACCOUNTING SUPERVISOR 
 
 
 
(Aug 2020 – Aug 2021) 
 
MAP Active Philippines Corp. (Wholesale and Retail) 
 Maintains the integrity of the general ledger including the preparation, verification, and 
input of journal entries. Reconciles and maintains balance sheets accounts. 
 Prepares financial reports for Management and Regional Reporting. 
 Assists with month-end and year-end closing, and preparation audited financial 
statements. 
 Prepares budget forecast. 
 Overseeing the invoicing department to ensure proper billing and collection of aged 
receivables. 
 Managing 3 subordinates. 
 

IV. 
BILLING ANALYST  
 
 
 
 
(Jul 2019 – Jul 2020) 
 
U-Bix Corporation (Service, Sales) 
 Performed reconciliation of various accounts every month to eliminate billing errors. 
 Monitoring and checking of invoices prepared by billing specialists before sending out 
to customers. 
 Conducting accurate closing processes, accruals and adjusting journal entries. 
 Preparation of monthly revenue reports. 
 
V. 
SENIOR ACCOUNTANT 
 
 
 
 
(Dec 2017 – Jun 2019) 
 
Philippine Phosphate Fertilizer Corporation (Manufacturing) 
 Processing and recording of disbursement and payable transactions 
 Performed reconciliation of various accounts every month to eliminate discrepancies. 
 
SKILLS 
 Proficiency in Microsoft Offices 
 Computer literacy, experienced in NetSuite, Oracle, and SAP. 
 Effective team management skills 
 
EDUCATION 
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy – 2013 to 2017 
Our Lady of the Pillar College-Cauayan 
Graduated on March 2017 
 
CERTIFICATION 
Certified Public Accountant 
Passed the CPA Licensure Examination dated October 2017.