CONRAD O. ANCIRO, C.P.A.  
 
 
 
 
 
 Doha, State of Qatar| +974 5536 50541 / +63966 429 4476 
 coa_cpa@yahoo.com|  https://www.linkedin.com/in/conradanciro/   
 
 
 Address: Musheirib, Doha, Qatar 
Mobile :  +974 55365041  
Email:  coa_cpa@yahoo.com 
 
1 
 
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY 
 
I have over twenty-three (23) years of experience and technical background in accounting, finance 
and audit and has proficient experience in International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and 
other compliance and statutory-based compliance reporting.  
 
 
CORE COMPETENCIES 
o 
Cluster Financial Management 
o 
Budgeting & Forecasting 
o 
P&L Consolidation & Analysis 
o 
Internal Controls & Audit Compliance 
o 
Cash Flow Management 
o 
Strategic Planning & Reporting 
o 
Team Leadership & Training 
o 
ERP & Accounting Systems (SAP, AX Dynamics, JD Edwards, Keyloop - Autoline) 
 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 
 
Duties and roles as Finance Manager / Financial Controller: 
-  Accountable for the accounting operations of the Company: 
o  Ensure accurate postings of transactions on a timely manner with proper review and approval of 
entries. 
o  Oversee the accounting/finance department. 
o  Oversee of daily accounting/finance functions and ensure everything runs smoothly: 
    o  Contribute/provide best practices on how to efficiently manage/reduce costs for the  
        Company  
    o 
Fixed assets management 
            
    -  Setting-up and maintaining a documented accounting policies and procedures manual and develop  
          internal controls for the Company. 
        -   Preparation, monitoring and analysis of the Company budget and comparing with actual results. 
        -   Monitoring and analysis of the Company’s financial performance (Financial Reporting: 
 
       -   Coordination with auditors with regards the financial statements audit of the Company. 
       -   Supervise accounting staff and monitor the performance of the accounting/finance department. 
       -   Training and development of accounting staff through continuous coaching and mentoring. 
       -   Contributing to decisions regarding the Company’s financial strategy 
       -  
Ensure compliance with the State of Qatar’s reporting and regulatory and tax filing requirements. 
 
 
 

 
CONRAD O. ANCIRO, C.P.A.  
 
 
 
 
 
 Doha, State of Qatar| +974 5536 50541 / +63966 429 4476 
 coa_cpa@yahoo.com|  https://www.linkedin.com/in/conradanciro/   
 
 
 Address: Musheirib, Doha, Qatar 
Mobile :  +974 55365041  
Email:  coa_cpa@yahoo.com 
 
2 
 
A. Cluster Finance Manager 
 
 
 
 
Oct.2022 – Present 
Saleh AL Hamad Al Mana Group of Companies - Doha, State of Qatar 
o 
Oversee financial operations for 10 companies  with combined annual revenue of USD 100M 
consisting of Almana Leasing Co. W.L.L., Almana Car Rental Enterprises – National, Almana 
Enterprises Co. W.L.L, Al Mana Galleria, Gulf Supplies and Lubricants, Protech Powered Sports 
Co. W.L.L., Silver Lake Motors W.L.L. (Exeed, Exlantix, Omoda and Jaecoo), Almana 
Consulting Group, Al Mana Recruitment Services. 
o 
Consolidate monthly financial statements (for one of the holding companies), ensuring 
accuracy and compliance with IFRS. 
o 
Streamlined budget and forecast cycles, reducing turnaround time by 25%. 
o 
Partnered with General Managers and Business Heads to identify cost optimization 
opportunities, achieving 6% reduction in operational costs without service quality impact. 
o 
Streamlined after-sales services in the workshop to improve customer satisfaction and  
o 
Led finance team of 16, developing cross-training programs that improved productivity and 
reduced turnover. 
 
B. Finance Manager 
 
 
 
 
 
Jan. 2020 – Aug. 2022 
Laffan Refrigeration & A/C  / Soft Trading and Contracting – Doha, State of Qatar 
o Managed all aspects of accounting operations, audit preparation, and financial analysis for the 
Company. 
o Implemented a new reporting dashboard that enhanced visibility into departmental spending. (Projects 
and Showroom). 
o Pushed for the collection of the company’s long-outstanding receivables and improve company’s 
cashflows. 
 
C.  Financial Controller 
 
                                                        Feb. 2017 – Dec. 2019 
West Bay Medicare – Doha, State of Qatar 
o Accountable for the accounting operations of the Company. 
o Set-up, implemented  and maintained a documented accounting policies and procedures manual and 
developed internal controls for the Company from scratch. 
o Assisted other department heads in developing their own department’s policies and procedures manual 
(i.e. recaptioning, nursing, procurement, hospital waste management). 
o Spearheaded the migration process from Tally to a healthcare ERP and medical system. 
o Streamlined and reduced patients waiting time from registration, admission and payments by adding 
POS machines in each clinic’s reception and trained medical receptionists in using the healthcare 
system’s billing and registration odule, 
 
D.  Ernst & Young – Doha, State of Qatar 
Senior Audit Manager 
Sept.2006 – Nov. 2016 
-       Manage team members to ensure smooth operations of sub-unit’s functions; 
      -       Ensure that sufficient audit evidence is gathered and correctly documented to support  the audit   
         opinion, in accordance with the firm’s standards, engagement objectives, client history and planned   
         audit approach. 
     -        Review work of team members on a timely basis and in a thorough and constructive manner. 
     -        Lead and coordinate the fieldwork team in an effective and efficient manner on a day-to-day basis. 
     -        Ensure all client deliverables are prepared and completed on a timely basis to a high technical standard  
        and presentational quality (including draft financial statements, management letters, business review  
        memorandums and other client communications). 
     -       Ensure the team uses technology to enhance service delivery. 
    

 
CONRAD O. ANCIRO, C.P.A.  
 
 
 
 
 
 Doha, State of Qatar| +974 5536 50541 / +63966 429 4476 
 coa_cpa@yahoo.com|  https://www.linkedin.com/in/conradanciro/   
 
 
 Address: Musheirib, Doha, Qatar 
Mobile :  +974 55365041  
Email:  coa_cpa@yahoo.com 
 
3 
 
  -       Manage risk to the firm by adhering to the risk management policies and procedures and ensuring   
        significant risks are identified. 
    -       Communicate and share all client and engagement knowledge with all the engagement team on a timely   
       basis. 
    -       Stay informed of relevant technical, business and economic developments 
    -       Work with other executives to identify and convert channel 1 and channel 2 sales opportunities for audit  
       and other service lines. 
    -       Perform budget preparation and monitoring for ACR clients as required. 
 
 
E.  Senior Accountant – Team Leader,   
 
 
 
Sept.2004 – Sept. 2006 
      Mission Support Team (Manila Accounting Support) 
      UN Migration (IOM) – Makati, Philippines 
-    Supervise team member/s to ensure smooth operations of sub-unit’s functions; 
-    Plan and monitor that Checklist and Payroll Reviews are completed for all assigned missions on a   
     timely manner; 
-    Review the works of team members and ensure that Checklist and Payroll Review procedures are  
     completed satisfactorily; Lead in finalizing checklist reviews; Review the summary of exceptions,  
     deviations and errors noted including recommended actions before these are submitted to the Head of  
     Unit for concurrence and subsequently to the missions for information and action; 
-   Plan and organize sub-unit’s operations in order to assist in a meaningful way in the review of vouchers  
    and supporting documents from field missions and in the preparation of reports of findings and  
    necessary/recommended courses of actions; 
-   Analyze and review donor financial reports, budget and fund balance of projects received from   
    different missions for efficient allocation of funding and costs. 
-   Review validation reports before these are submitted to the missions; 
-   Review trial balances before and after the month-end accounts closure. Ensure that any exceptions or  
    deviations are followed up, resolved or clarified; 
 
F.  Associate Auditor-in-charge 
 
 
 
 
Dece.2001 – Sept. 2004 
     SyCip Gorres Velayo & Co. (Ernst & Young Philippines) 
     
 
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRY EXPOSURES 
 
  Automotive      Manufacturing       Construction       FMCG / Clothing/Fashion Retailing 
  Pharmaceuticals       Mining       Airlines       Education       Healthcare Services 
  Recruitment Services  
  F&B 
 
 
 

 
CONRAD O. ANCIRO, C.P.A.  
 
 
 
 
 
 Doha, State of Qatar| +974 5536 50541 / +63966 429 4476 
 coa_cpa@yahoo.com|  https://www.linkedin.com/in/conradanciro/   
 
 
 Address: Musheirib, Doha, Qatar 
Mobile :  +974 55365041  
Email:  coa_cpa@yahoo.com 
 
4 
 
SEMINARS AND TRAININGS 
 
ANTI MONEY LAUNDERING AND COMBATING TERRORISM FINANCING  
Qatar Chamber of Commerce, Qatar 
 
EXECUTIVE INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (IFRS) UPDATE (Annually 
since 2008) 
Ernst & Young Doha, Qatar 
 
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT (Annually since 2005) 
Ernst & Young Doha, Qatar 
 
PROJECT MANAGEMENT 
Ernst & Young Doha, Qatar 
 
NEW MANAGERS AND ASSISTANT DIRECTORS PROGRAM 
Ernst & Young – The Netherlands - EMEIA Region 
 
MANAGERS ASSESSMENT AND DEVELOPMENT CENTRE 
Ernst & Young – Dubai, U.A.E – MENA Region 
 
EFFECTIVE PRESENTATIONS  
Ernst & Young Doha, Qatar 
 
SARBANES-OXLEY ORIENTATION (FOCUS ON INTEGRATED AUDIT) 
SyCip Gorres Velayo & Co., a member practice firm of Ernst & Young L.L.P., Makati, Philippines 
 
• 
EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND 
 
1996 - 2001 
UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
Diliman, Quezon City, Philippines 
Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and Accountancy, April 2001. 
 
 
PERSONAL INFORMATION 
 
Nationality   : 
Filipino  
 
Date of birth : 
21 August 1979 
Civil status  : 
Married  
 
Gender 
  : 
Male