Created with Jobstreet Profile 
David Ismael Monteagudo 
Tunasan, Muntinlupa City 1773 
david.r.monteagudo@gmail.com l +63 9541999981 
Born: Nov. 21, 1982 
Summary 
A Certified Public Accountant with 20 years of experience, offering 
expertise in FP&A, general accounting, payroll, treasury, tax and 
compliance, and project business services. Currently serving as the 
CFO of the Gramans Group of Companies, which operates across 
multiple industries including logistics, trading, and real estate. 
Previously served as Regional Finance Manager at Arcadis Consulting 
Middle East, overseeing finance operations in the Philippines, India, 
and Romania. Spent 16 years with Fluor Corporation in various 
progressively responsible roles, including a 6-year assignment at the 
Fluor Abu Dhabi office, where responsibilities included FP&A and AP 
for E&C, I&I, TRS, and Stork . 
Career history 
Chief Financial Officer at Gramans Group of Companies 
 
Dec 2024 – April 2025 
 
City Of Muntinlupa, NCR, Philippines 
 
Led the Finance and Accounting Department, also serving as the 
Controller, optimizing operations and enhancing financial controls. Led 
the Procurement and IT Department. Developed and implemented 
strategic financial plans to support long-term company growth. 
Analyzed operational issues and implemented corrective action to 
maximize profits. Directed budget development, budgetary controls and 
recordkeeping to make informed financial decisions. Conducted various 
feasibility studies to identify profitable business opportunities. 
 
Finance Manager at Arcadis 
 
Aug 2022 - Feb 2025 (2 years 7 months) 
 
Finance Manager for Arcadis Philippines, India and Romania handling 
teams for Accounts Payable, Payroll, Treasury, Tax and Compliance. 
 
Finance Manager at Fluor 
 
Mar 2021 - Jul 2022 (1 year 5 months) 
 
Accounts Payable Lead for the Fluor Manila Office handling a team of 
Accounts Payable Analysts processing invoices for Manila, Singapore 
and multiple small projects. 

Created with Jobstreet Profile 
 
Finance Manager at Fluor 
 
Aug 2018 - Feb 2021 (2 years 7 months) 
 
Accounts Payable Lead for the Fluor Manila Office handling a team of 
Accounts Payable Analysts processing invoices for Manila and 
Singapore Offices. 
 
Project Business Services Role at Fluor 
 
Aug 2017 - Jul 2018 (1 year) 
 
PBS Analyst for SLNG Project responsible for client and interco 
invoicing, cost and hours billing recon, uploading and analysis of PMAR 
and preparation of adhoc reports. 
 
Financial Analyst at Fluor 
 
Jan 2015 - Feb 2017 (2 years 2 months) 
 
and Feb 2011 - Apr 2013 
 
Handles annual financial planning and monthly forecasting activities. 
Serves as the general accountant responsible for ensuring proper 
booking of all accounting transactions. Prepares monthly variance 
analysis and weekly labor utilization reports submitted to the General 
Manager and Regional Controller. Provides monthly cost center reports 
to Department Managers. Has depth knowledge of Hyperion (Oracle) 
as the application being used for planning and forecasting. Supports 
the Finance Manager during internal and external audit by preparing 
audit schedules and analysis of accounts. Prepares the quarterly E&C 
rate computation for the office. 
 
Accounts Payable Role at Fluor 
 
May 2013 - Feb 2017 (3 years 10 months) 
 
Performs a lead role for the Accounts Payable section servicing E&C, 
I&I, TRS and Stork (part-time). Ensures timely payment to vendors 
while maximizing the payment terms. Strictly implements company 
policies by auditing all invoices and employee expense reports to make 
sure all expenses are valid, evidenced by supporting documents. 
Serves as the focal person for all AP related transactions, coordinating 
all concerns with the vendors. Reconciles all accounts and makes sure 
they tally with the vendor's SOA. Organizes accounts payable files, 
both soft and hard copies. Automates process using macro in 
accounting for bulk transactions as part of work process improvements. 
 
Payroll Master at Fluor Daniel Inc., Philippines 
 
Mar 2008 - Feb 2011 (3 years) 
 
Led payroll processing for 1,500+ employees, managing end-to-end 
payroll cycles and addressing employee queries. Streamlined payroll 
system, reducing errors and improving processing time. Highlight on 
this role is the transition of payroll processing from third party to SAP 
payroll system under my lead. 

Created with Jobstreet Profile 
 
Accounting Technician at Fluor 
 
Oct 2006 - Feb 2008 (1 year 5 months) 
 
Serves as payroll assistant supporting the payroll lead and at the same 
time handles employee accounting processing expense reports and 
monitors employee vendor account balances. 
 
Associate Accountant at Prime Outsource Corporation 
 
May 2006 - Sep 2006 (5 months) 
 
Handles four companies with the following responsibilities - 
bookkeeping, preparation of monthly financial statements, filing of tax 
forms and statutory reports and monthly meeting with the clients. 
 
Accounting Instructor at San Pablo Colleges 
 
Jun 2005 - Sep 2006 (1 year 4 months) 
 
Teaches basic accounting subjects and review for graduating students 
(full time for Jun-Sep 2005 and part-time thereafter). 
 
General Accountant at Circle Corporate, Inc 
 
Oct 2005 - Apr 2006 (7 months) 
 
Provides accounting services for 7 companies under Petrolift Group 
with the following responsibilities - recording of journal entries to 
general ledger, preparation of lapsing schedules, monitoring of cash 
advance liquidation, preparation of accounts analysis and bank 
reconciliation. 
Skills 
SAP, Oracle, Quickbooks, Peachtree, Project Management, Team 
Management, Financial Planning, Financial Reporting 
Languages 
English, Filipino 
Education 
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy 
 
Laguna College 
 
Finished 2004 
Licences & certifications 
Philippines Certified Public Accountant Registration 
 
May 2005 - present 
 
CPA License no. 114033