EDMUND ALAN B. MIGUEL
Lot No. 39B Road 25, Cogeo Village, Bagong Nayon I Antipolo City, Philippines 1870
Mobile No: +63 927 8945070 ; Home No: +63 2 7955876
E-.mail address: eabmiguel@yahoo.com
TIN : 121-077-809-000
      CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT
Phil. Board of Accountancy (BOA) Professional Registration CPA No. 69759
CPA Board : December  1981
SUMMARY:
- Performed, planned, organized, managed and led the day to day, end to end and full cycle operational, analytical, reporting and compliance activities and functions of the various areas of finance, accounting , internal audit, PMO F&A and administration such as but not limited to the following .
General & Cost Accounting Inventory and Fixed Assets Cash, Banking and Treasury Payable and Disbursement
Billing, Collection and Accounts Receivable Payroll and Expense
Corporate Wide CAPEX and OPEX Budgeting Cash Flow Planning and Investment
Financial Analysis and Reporting
Taxation and Regulatory Compliance Reporting – BIR, SEC, BSP, PEZA, SSS, HDMF, PHILHEALTH Procurement, Warehousing and Inventory Control and Management
General Administration Support Services - HR, Security, Janitorial, Office Maintenance, Motorpool..etc Internal Audit, Risk and Statutory Reporting Compliance Review
Program and Project Financial Cost and Benefits Analysis and Reporting Products and Projects Revenue and Costs analysis
Financial Projection and Modelling
Developed, improved and implemented various operational, analytical, reporting and compliance policies, processes, procedures, internal controls, templates and systems that enhanced work efficiency, attained objectives and complied with corporate, industry and regulatory standards, regulations and principles for start-ups and existing organizations.
Coordinated, collaborated and managed work issues with different stakeholders at various corporate levels, global regions, nationalities government regulating agencies and external auditors.
   FINANCE MANAGER  - Full Time Consultant
   ENERGY EQUIPMNET TECH. Corp.
   December 18, 2023 to March 31, 2024
   Makati City
   ACCOUNTING MANAGER – Full Time Consultancy
   PURE EVs    
   April 28, 20223 September 15, 2023
   CAPPI Warehouse
   Antipolo City
FINANCE HEAD – Full Time Consultancy INFINITECH DIGITAL GAMING CORPORATION
March 28, 2022 to January 15, 2023
Caswynn Building
Timog Avenue, Quezon City 
FINANCE HEAD – Full Time Consultancy AGILE CONSULTING INC.
January 2019 to August 2019 Taguig City
Plan, organize and develop the Finance and Accounting Organization including job descriptions,
Plan, develop and implement the relevant finance and accounting operational, analysis, reporting and compliance activities, functions, processes and internal controls for :
Financial transaction documentations, processing, review and approvals
Financial transactions reconciliation and recording – including development of the Chart of Accounts Financial reporting to management and regulatory agencies such as BIR, SSS, HDMF and
PHILHEALTH..etc
Financial compliance to various statutory requirements including corporate taxes, LGU registrations, Statutory Agencies Registrations,
Financial and cash flow forecasting, planning and budgeting, Purchasing and inventory / fixed assets recording and control.
Mentor and train the onboarded finance and accounting staffs,
Manage and lead the whole finance and accounting operational, analytical, reporting and compliances activities and functions,
Collaborate with management and coordinate with the various operating units regarding finance and accounting requirements.
Implement Purchasing and Warehousing processes and internal controls.
FINANCE HEAD – Full Time Consultancy
ORGANIQUE, INC. / PRIME GIGABUILD CONSTRUCTION CORP. and Group
May 2020 to November 2020 Makati City
Develop and implement per product revenue and cost analysis, review processes and templates,
Develop and implement per project construction revenue and cost analysis processes and templates,
Manage and lead the treasury and purchasing activities and functions,
Coordinates with financial institution processing and approval of corporate loans,
Perform construction project and FMG product analysis and Promo revenue and costs analysis.
Develop and implement relevant Treasury, Accounting, Financial Planning and Purchasing processes and internal controls,
Collaborate with management and coordinate with the various operating units regarding accounting and finance requirements.
AMERICAN INSURANCE GROUP (AIG) SHARED SERVICES (MANILA) – (Nov. 18, 2013 to
April 15, 2016) PBCom Tower
Ayala Avenue, Makati City
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Planned, organized, managed and led the day to day program / project financial cost and benefits analysis / review, tracking / monitoring, analytical, compliance and reporting activities and functions.
Performed review and assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of program / project financial review, Monitoring, compliance and reporting processes.
Designed, developed, recommended and implemented program / project cost and benefits financial review, validation, reconciliation and monitoring operational and reporting processes, procedures, templates and metrics.
Closely coordinated and collaborated with various program / project managers and stakeholders from different countries / regions regarding financial issues on the business case , cost benefits analysis, deal sheet and PPM financial validation / reconciliation clarifications and resolutions.
Developed training materials for various project team members and performed actual training regarding business case, cost and benefit, deal sheet and project tracking reports preparations.
Attended project / program regular call meetings regarding project / program regional peer and investment board reviews and financial validation and reconciliation issues clarifications and resolutions.
Collaborated with the program / project stakeholders the preparation of Cost and Benefit Analysis (CBA) and resolution of financial  validation / reconciliation issues.
VOLENDAY INC. / PEOPLEPLUS TECH. INC. – (July 26, 2011 to April 05, 2013)
MultiNational Bank Corp. Center Ayala Avenue, Makati City
RESPONSIBILITIES (software used : Quick Books)
Organized the internal audit and US outsourced finance service units.
Planned, managed and led the day to day internal audit and US outsourced finance operationa, analytical, compliancel and reporting activities and functions.
Performed review and assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of finance, accounting and operating business processes, procedures,  internal controls and policies.
Designed, developed, recommended and implemented financial and administrative policies, business processes, procedure, templates and internal controls to comply with industry/corporate and regulatory standards and requirements.
Designed, developed and implemented robust internal audit operational, analytical, compliance and reporting charter, manual, procedures, processes and templates to mitigate risks and improved internal controlsand work efficiency.
Designed, developed and implemented US finance outsourced processes, procedures, templates and systems changes to mitigate risks,  comply with statutory requirements and to enhance workefficiency.
Closely coordinated with US Clients and Phil. entities regarding financial issues, tax reporting, budgeting, financial planning and analysis.
Prepared US clients budgeting and financial reports.
Prepared the internal audit, finance outsourced services and US company annual CAPEX and OPEX budgets.
Developed internal audit and finance outsourced training materials and perform actual hands ontraining.
ACCENTURE - (February 01, 2010 to November 05, 2010)
Cybergate 3 Building
Pioneer Street, Mandaluyong City
RESPONSIBILITIES (Software used: SAP)
Managed and led the day to day financial activities with emphasis on accurate and timely recording of transactions and with adherence to the service level agreement with Client.
Closely coordinated, collaborated and worked with stakeholders to identify internal and external risks associated with the general accounting activities and processing of transactions.
Designed, recommended and implemented robust operational and reporting processes, people and systems changes to mitigate risks.
Ensured that activities are within the agreed service level, rules, regulations (SOX..etc) and accounting standards.
Responsible for providing assurance to Client and External auditors that proper set of internal controls are in place and that Client assets, obligations are accurately reflected.
Closely work ed with the tower managers in providing and developing leadership and directions to all Staffs associated with the implementation of accounting and financial services.
ELIXIR GAMING TECHNOLOGIES (CAMBODIA), INC. - (September 16, 2008 to April 03, 2009)
7E Street, MaoTse Toung Boulevard Samgkat Beoung Kengkong
Khan Chamkanorn Phnom Penh, Camboida
RESPONSIBILITIES (Software used: Oracle Ebiz Gl)
Managed and led the day to day finance and accounting operational and reporting activities and functions.
Managed and led the day to day cage and gaming treasury operational and reporting activities and functions.
Managed and led the warehousing operational and reporting activities and functions. Manage and lead the regular cycle counts of gaming machines and other gaming capital assets.
Maintained and implemented efficient finance, accounting and treasury operational and reporting processes, procedures and internal controls to comply with established corporate , industry and regulatory standard requirements..
Ensured accurate and timely processing and recording of financial transactions.
Ensured accurate and timely financial reporting for internal and external reporting requirements including local tax and corporate reporting.
Directed and reviewed the various gaming reports for accuracy and completeness.
Ensured compliance with relevant legislation, rule and standards in financial recording and reporting, taxation laws, labor and payroll regulations and other related business regulations.
Ensured complete accounting and financial documentation requirements and records are properly kept.
Ensured business maintains prudent cash flow management, monitors receivables, payable and manages general treasury matters.
Built, guided and trained the team of competent finance, accounting and warehouse / inventory resources.
Performed periodic budgeting for the unit and consolidate the budget of the organization.
Ensured compliance and Implements financial operating procedures, processesand internal controls.
Closely coordinated /work with Corporate Finance - VP Finance / Finance Director and Country General Manager on accounting and financial matter
MAXIMUM SOLUTIONS INC / EMERSON SHARED SERVICES - (June 16, 2008 to Sept. 15, 2008)
The Orient Square Bldg. Ortigas, Pasig City
TOTALMED CORP. (June 2007 to February 2008) Masinag, Antipolo City / Subic Bay Freeport Zone
PHILIPPINE DEALING SYSTEM GROUP:
Phil. Dealing System Holdings Corp. – holding entity for the group Phil Dealing Exchange Corp. - fixed income exchange
Phil Depository & Trust Corp. (formerly Phil. Central Depository, Inc.) -depository, custody, registry of equity & debt securities
Phil. Securities Settlement Corp. – equity & debt securities settlement services PCD Nominee Corp. - nominee for equity jumbo certificates
The Enterprise Center
6766 Ayala Ave., Makati City
RESPONSIBILITIES (for the group):
Planned, organized, managed and led the financial settlement, financial accounting, financial budgeting and transaction control day to day, full cycle operational, analytical, compliance and reporting functions and activities.
Designed, developed and implemented for the various companies under the group, the accounting Chart of Accounts, accounting, purchasing and administrative operationa, analytical, compliancel and reporting processes, procedures, manual, templates and internal controls to comply with the corporate, industry and regulatory standard requirements.
Coordinated financial transactions and service requirements with banks, schedule/direct the investments of excess corporate funds and schedule payment/disbursement funding.
Coordinated with the various operating departments for the implementation of financial internal control systems.
Directed and coordinated the preparation and submission of the periodic financial and compliance reports to the Board Management Committee and other government reporting entities such as BIR, SEC, BSP and etc.
Coordinated the preparation and review of the annual OPEX and OPEX departmental and company wide budgets and the regular budget variance analysis and reports.
Performed various revenue and cost analysis and projections needed by other departments and management.
Evaluated periodically the effectiveness and compliance to established financial internal control system - recommend positive measures to enhance established existing systems.
Philippine Central Depository, Inc. and PCD Nominee Corp.
RESPONSIBILITIES
Planned, organized, managed and led the accounting/finance and general administrative operational, analytical, compliance and reporting activities and functions.
Designed, developed and implemented the accounting Chart of Accounts and various accounting, purchasing and administrative operational and reporting processes, procedures, manual, templates and internal controls to comply with the corporate, industry and regulatory standard requirements.
Coordinated financial transactions and service requirements with banks, schedule/direct the investments of excess corporate funds and schedule payment/disbursement funding.
Formulated, recommended and implemented financial, inventory, purchasing, risks and information security operational and reporting processes procedures and internal control systems.
Coordinated with the various operating departments for the review, development, modification and implementation of financial internal control systems.
Directed the preparation of other financial reports needed by the Board, Management and other Government reporting entities.
Coordinated the preparation and review of the annual departmental and company-wide budgets and the regular budget variance analysis and reports.
Performed various revenue and cost analysis and projections as needed by other departments and management.
Coordinate d risks and information security access review.
Evaluated periodically the effectiveness and compliance to established internal control system - recommend positive measures to enhance established existing systems.
SteelAsia Manufacturing Corporation 65 Howmart Road, Bo. Kangkong Quezon City
Masaito Development Corporation Prudential Bank Bldg.
Pasong Tamo, Makati City
Hinatuan Mining Corporation Guiauan, Eastern Samar
Adroit Marketing Corporation Campos Rueda Building
N. Domingo St., Quezon City
Phil. Fruit and Vegetable Ind., Inc. San Carlos City, Pangasinan
Engineering & Development Corp. of the Philippines Marvin Plaza Building
Pasong Tamo, Makati City
Lungsod Silangan Transport Services	( Part Time ) Cooperative, Inc.
.
ODOO, Quickbooks, SAP GL, Oracle GL, CA - ACCPAC / 2000 General Ledger, Platinum for Windows General Ledger, FAS Encore Fixed Asset, SURE General  Ledger Accounting Software, Lotus 123, Wordstar, MS Excel, MSWord
BSBA ACCOUNTING  -  1978 to 1981
University of the East – Manila Campus Claro M. Recto Street, Sampaloc Manila, Philippines
BS GENERAL  1972 to 1976
University of Santo Tomas 
Espana Blvd., Sampaloc &Manila, Philippines