HENDRICK VAN NATIVIDAD 
Certified Public Accountant 
Talon Kuatro, Las Pinas City  |  (+63) 917 6247567  |  hendricknatividad@gmail.com 
PROFILE 
 
Seasoned accounting and finance professional with more than decade of 
experience in financial reporting and analysis, tax and regulatory 
compliance, internal control and risk management, treasury management 
(loans, 
fund, 
forex 
hedging), 
ERP 
and 
systems 
migration 
and 
implementation, external and corporate internal audits, shared services 
and process optimization, credit control and collection management, 
payroll master, leadership and team management. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXPERIENCE 
FINANCIAL CONTROLLER 
ULAP Networks, Inc. and affiliates 
(ULAP Networks, Inc – Philippines operations, ULAP Networks Sbn Bhd – 
Brunei Darussalam and ULAP Networks Pte. Ltd. – Singapore operations) 
Muntinlupa City 
June 2025 to present 
Led financial operations including month-end closing, tax compliance and 
management reporting, driving process improvements and system 
enhancements across finance functions, collaborate with executive 
leadership to support business growth and financial sustainability. 
ACHIEVEMENTS + HIGHLIGHTS 
• 
Established the Finance Department by designing and implementing 
standardized controls, processes, and procedures. 
• 
Strengthened 
approval 
and 
governance 
controls 
through 
the 
implementation of an ERP system and end-to-end system integrations. 
• 
Reconciled historical balances and established accurate, reliable 
opening and ongoing balances across all entities. 
SENIOR MANAGER – ACCOUNTING & TAX 
JG Summit Olefins Corporation 
(JG Summit Olefins Corporation, Peak Fuel Corporation, Batangas Agro-
Industrial Development Corp and subsidiaries) 
Pasig City 
September 2024 to May 2025 
Managed month-end closing processes, general and cost accounting, tax 
reporting and compliance, management reporting and annual audit and 
statutory reporting. 
 

FINANCIAL CONTROLLER 
SGS Philippines, Inc. and affiliates 
(SGS Philippines, SGS Gulf ROHQ, SGS Global Business Services Asia, Inc., 
SGS (Subic Bay), Inc., SGS Guam, Inc.) 
Makati City 
December 2018 to September 2024 
Managed local group reporting, treasury (loan, cash, forex) management, 
tax compliance and reporting, statutory and other regulatory reporting, 
external and corporate internal audit completion, credit control and 
collection management, financial planning and analysis, Internal Control 
over Financial Reporting (ICoFR) compliance, risk management champion, 
system implementation, finance shared services, corporate sustainability 
reporting. 
ACHIEVEMENTS + HIGHLIGHTS 
• 
Successfully migrated accounting systems to Oracle eBusiness Suites, 
and secured BIR permit for Computerized Accounting System (CAS). 
• 
Established payment collection channels in collaboration with Group 
Account and local banking partners. 
• 
Successfully closed tax audits for 2018, 2019 and 2020 for SGS 
entities.  
• 
Recognized subject matter expert for AR, AP, Innovate Tax and GL 
system modules. 
CHIEF ACCOUNTANT 
Broadband Everywhere Corp 
San Juan City 
October 2016 to December 2018 
Managed 
accounting, 
financial 
reporting 
and 
analysis, 
treasury 
management, credit and collection, accounts payable, payroll, tax 
compliance and reporting, external audit, statutory and other regulatory 
reporting. 
ACCOUNTING MANAGER/HEAD 
Crown Equities, Inc. and its subsidiaries 
Listed on the Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE). 
(Crown Equities, Inc., Crown Central Properties Corporation, Fortmed 
Medical Clinics – Makati and Santa Rosa Clinics) 
Makati City 
September 2015 to October 2016 
Led the accounting group in financial reporting and analysis, management 
information reporting, general accounting, group consolidation and 
reporting, payroll, tax compliance and reporting, statutory and other 
regulatory compliance, process improvement and system implementation. 
 

 
SENIOR II 
Punongbayan & Araullo 
Makati City 
November 2010 to August 2015 
Handled general accounting and bookkeeping, financial statement 
preparation, accounts payable and payment processing, tax filing and 
reporting, external audit support, system management, other business 
support services (e.g. internal audit, tax and business documentation 
review, transaction processing review) 
EDUCATION & 
CERTIFICATION 
BS IN ACCOUNTANCY 
Philippine School of Business Administration - Manila  
2009 
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT 
Professional Regulation Commission 
2010 
SYSTEMS & 
APPLICATIONS 
• 
Oracle Financials E-Business Suites (Advanced)  
• 
Hyperion Financial Management reporting (Advanced) 
• 
Microsoft Dynamics NAV (Intermediate)  
• 
QuickBooks Enterprise (Advanced)  
• 
SAP S4 Hana (Intermediate) 
• 
Xero Accounting Software (Advanced) 
• 
Microsoft Office Applications