Ike Tom Tamondong Tolentino, CPA  
  
📍 
34 Gen. M. Hizon, Makati City, 1233 Metro Manila 
☏ 
09273148915  
✉ 
ayk2m_tol@yahoo.com  
 
 
 
WORK EXPERIENCES   
 Finance and Administration Manager (September 2023 to Present) 
MacroAsia Catering Services Inc.   
West Service Road Merville Exit NAIA Villamor Zone 20, Barangay 183, Pasay City 
NCR, Fourth District Philippines, 1300 
• 
Strategic Management, Financial Planning, and Shared Leadership 
• 
Financial Statement Generation and Reporting 
• 
Revenue Management and Sustainable Cost Leadership 
• 
Treasury, Investment and Capital Allocation Decisions 
• 
Compliance and Risk Management 
• 
Technology and Digital Transformation 
 
 Internal Auditor (July 2015 to August 2023) 
MacroAsia Corporation and subsidiaries:   
12th Floor, PNB Allied Bank Center, 6754 Ayala Avenue, Makati City 1226  
• 
Conducted audit, analyzed and reviewed data and determined level of compliance with 
all applicable directives and regulations.   
• 
Prepared and reported all findings. Provided assistance on the presentation of the audit 
report.  
• 
Assessed how well the business was complying with rules and regulations and informed 
management whether any issues needed addressing.  
• 
Involved in annual audit planning and business monitoring processes, through close 
engagement with the stakeholders and assessment of current and emerging risks.  
• 
Researched and assessed how well risk management processes were working.  
• 
Performed risk assessments on key business activities and used this information to guide what 
to cover in audits.  
• 
Performed other task that may be assigned.  
 Audit Associate (March 2014 to July 2015) 
BDO Roxas Cruz Tagle and Co., CPAs (Formerly BDO Alba Romeo & Co., CPAs) 
7th Floor Multinational Bancorporation Centre 6805 Ayala Ave., Makati City  
• 
Inspected clients’ accounting records and expressed an opinion as to whether financial 
statements are presented fairly in accordance with the applicable accounting standards of 
the entity, such as Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) or International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).  
 Junior Internal Auditor (June 2011 to March 2014) 
SM Retail, Inc. 
SM Corporate Offices, Bldg. A, J.W. Diokno Blvd, Mall of Asia, Pasay City  
• 
Provided an independent and objective assurance activity designed to add value and 
improve the organization’s operations, helped the organization accomplish its objectives by 
bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of 
risk management, control, and governance processes.  
 Finance and Accounting Associate (November 2009 to April 2011) 
Maersk Global Service Centres Philippines, LTD  
Wynsum Corporate Plaza, Emerald Ave., Ortigas Center, Pasig City 
 
 
 
 

 
LICENSE AND CERTIFICATION   
 Certified Public Accountant Board Passer  
October 2010   
 PRC Board of Accountancy Accreditation  
 
EDUCATION 
2009 
 University of Luzon 
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy 
2400 Perez Blvd, Downtown District, Dagupan, Pangasinan 
2003 
 Mary Help of Christians Minor Seminary 
Mckinley Street, Binmaley, Pangasinan 
  
SKILLS 
 Advanced Accounting and Auditing 
 
  
I hereby attest to the veracity of the aforementioned information. 
  
 
TOLENTINO, IKE TOM T.