JANET GERMAN-MARQUEZ, CPA
Block 6 Lot 1 Chaucer Street Lancaster Village 1	
San Sebastian Kawit Cavite 4104	
nhet_ph@yahoo.com
+639177020305
OBJECTIVE 
 To be part of an organization were my skills and knowledge will be further enhanced.
QUALIFICATIONS & SKILLS
More than 15years’ experience in Accounting profession
Proficient in usage of Window-based program such as Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel and  Internet, knowledge in accounting software such Oracle, Pastel, Gnu Cash, QuickBooks, Great Plains, Xero Accounting Software, Netsuite, SAP
Hardworking, highly organized, fast learner and a team player.
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCES
SMEC PHILIPPINES INC.
801; 903 to 906 The Orient Square Building, Ortigas Center, Pasig City
Finance and Accounts Manager
March 18, 2019 to present
Provide efficient and effective financial management and accounting services including budget development, analysis and reporting of SMEC International Pty. Ltd. (branch) and SMEC Philippines. Analyse financial performance against key business metrics and document pertinent financial highlights that will enable management to determine progress against budgets. Monitor the financial performance of projects managed by SMEC Philippines and recommend corrective action where required to meet agreed objectives. Ensure compliance with local statutory requirements regarding all corporate and personal income tax, VAT and withholding taxes. Establish and maintain internal controls to ensure compliance with financial legislation, policies and procedures. Timely preparation of monthly management accounts, including the reconciliation of all balance sheet accounts. Coordinate with external auditors for the timely finalization of fiscal year-end audit of SMEC Philippines, Inc. and SMEC International (branch). Supervise processing of payroll and issuance of withholding tax certificates. Review and drive improvements in financial management and operational policies, ensuring financial obligations are met in accordance with the BMS. Manage treasury functions including but not limited to forecasting, monitoring and tracking of cash flow (weekly, monthly, quarterly etc.) and update/change of bank signatories. Ensure the timely collection of receivables. Liaise with Corporate Secretary / legal advisor for the timely and accurate reportorial requirement with SEC. Respond to inquiries from Divisional management and corporate finance regarding financial results, special reporting requests and the like. Assist in development and implementation of new procedures and features to enhance the workflow of the finance team. Provide training to new and existing staff as needed. Manage accounting and financial systems and maintain full and accurate accounting records. Other duties as required.
MEGAWEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES INC.
PNB Building Ayala Avenue Makati city
Finance and Accounting Manager
October 30, 2017 to October 12, 2018 (Retrenchment due to business closure)
Managing the accounting department with two direct reports for payroll, accounting and finance. Daily Monitoring of in and out of money in the book of accounts and reporting the same to owner of the company the daily balance of accounts. Maintaining updated records of the books (created a system for accounting report in excel format) this includes Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Cash flow Report. Implementation of Budget and Actual Variance per department and reporting the result in Bi-Monthly Meeting with the various department heads. Checking of Voucher/Budget Requisition before releasing the same checking if the same was budgeted by the respected department. Reporting compliance report to Bureau of Internal Revenue – VAT, Quarterly Reporting, 1601C and 1601E, Annual reporting for BIR purposes. Bank reconciliation, intercompany reconciliation and other reconciliation. Creation of various policy that will help strengthen the internal control of the company. Implement procedures to improve work flows/division of work among accounting staff. Making sure that reporting and payment to HDMF, PHIC, SSS are done and submitted on time. Making sure that the payroll is done in correct manner, people are paid on time with correct amount. Computation/checking final pay of resigned employee making sure that amount that need to be deducted are deducted in full. Preparation of adjusting entries in the books of accounts. Creation of Accounting Manual for company. Reconciliation of Assets that was acquired by the company versus what is recorded in the books. Liaise with external auditors on audit of financial statements, ensure compliance with local standards, and prepare audit schedules as required. Perform reconciliation for accounts receivable, accounts payable, inter-company balances and bank balances. Holding Petty cash for one affiliate of the company. Responding to various needs of different department, management from time to time
GREAT UNITY PHILIPPINE TRADING INC.
Bulacan Metro Warehouse Guiginto Sta. Rita Bulacan
Finance and Admin Manager
July 25, 2016 to October 29,2017
To monitor operational accounting matters i.e general ledger, accuracy of AP and AR entries, ageing issues, Inventory and reconciliation, etc. to ensure the transaction are adhering to Finance SOP. To manage payroll management and income tax matters of employees to ensure is in compliance with Philippine Law. To analyze financial performance of the company in order to provide analysis result to Country Manager for business review, forecast and budgeting purpose. To prepare other financial and account report i.e. Daily cash flow report, monthly sales report, monthly payroll report, monthly insured AR report, monthly inventory report, weekly sales report, quarterly sales declaration report and any other report as and when required by management. To facilitate credit control and account receivable to ensure full compliance to HQ credit policy. To process and monitor both incoming and outgoing cash flow to ensure on time payment and sufficient cash flow maintenance. To maintain insurance coverage matters inclusive of staff insurance, office insurance, product liability insurance, travel insurance and Euler Hermes Credit Insurance to comply with Ministry of Labor requirements and safeguard company asset and staff. Liaise with external auditors on audit of financial statements, ensure compliance with local standards, and prepare audit schedules as required. To facilitate office administrative matters which enabled office operation run in smooth manners, including licenses, permits, BOC renewal requirement, BIR matters. Supervise accounting staff and ensure accurate payables/receivables input in accounting system. Check payment to ensure compliance with local tax requirement. Regular review of accounts receivable aging and work with managers to collect outstanding debts and to minimize Days of Sales Outstanding. Prepare month end journals such as payroll, accrual, expense allocation, depreciation and inventory management.
Review operating result and analyze performance against budget/forecast. Perform reconciliation for accounts receivable, accounts payable, inter-company balances and bank balances. To lead the Philippine team for SAP migration.
WGROUP INC.
26th Floor, W Building, Fifth Avenue Bonifacio Global City, Taguig
Finance Manager
March 2016 to July 22, 2016
Manages AP includes vendor relations. Ensures that VAT and withholding tax are accurately computed. Checks that entries are correctly posted in the books. Performing the month end closing process and reconciliation of the ledger. Initiates general ledger journal postings and perform accounting reconciliations related to accounts payable. Prepares policy relating to Accounts Payable and check that internal controls are operating effectively. Ensure the Accounts Payable (AP) team are replying to all queries in a timely manner and all queries are dealt with correctly and efficiently. Regular reporting and analysis required by HBUs. Manage payroll and employee related transactions. Reviews payroll register and ensures that payroll is recorded and paid timely. Reviews mandatory contribution relating to payroll and ensure that it is paid on timely manner. Prepare consolidated monthly KPIs by Accounting & Finance Department. Plan long-term cash flow forecast by analyzing and monitoring transactions particularly cash inflows and outflows. Prepare and update cash flow forecast, cash position and treasury reports. Establish and maintain good relationships with various banks and counterparties to facilitate the company's banking requirements. Initiates general ledger journal postings and perform accounting reconciliations related to accounts payable. Lead fiscal year end close/audit preparation as related to accounts payable transactions. Reviews contracts and identify tax and accounting impact. Supervise AP team to provide timely and accurate payment of vendors, including expertise in application of Company’s Accounting policies, tax rules and accounting principles. Review and approve vouchers for payment on a daily basis. Facilitate continuous improvement of processes through the identification and implementation of continuous improvement initiatives. Review cheque prepare before it is signed by signatories. Making sure that there are enough funds to pay current obligation, debts that are due. Assist VP – Accounting and Manager in the implementation of special projects, process improvements and review of policies.
FLAT PLANET PHILIPPINES, INC.										
Level 18 Robinsons Summit Center 6783 Ayala Avenue 1226 Makati City
Accounting Manager
July 18, 2014 to July 31, 2015
General preparation and oversight of company accounts for Philippine-based and Australian-based companies. Prepare and review all applicable journal entries. In-charge of the review, analysis and reconciliation of all balance sheet and profit and loss accounts. In-charge of the review and reconciliation and the preparation of monthly client invoices. Management of collections including liaison with client stakeholders. In-charge of the monthly and yearly closing of books, which includes the preparation and finalization of financial reports such as the following: (1) Statement of Financial Position; (2) Statement of Income; (3) Budget Performance Reports and (4) Cash Flow. Prepares special reports or analysis as required by the Managing Director to support his final report/recommendation to the management. Implements the Company’s policies, rules and regulations pertaining to disbursements. In-charge of the payable entries, vouchers and withholding tax certificates. Ensures proper tax treatment of all applicable transactions. Sets priorities in the processing of urgent Requests for Payment to assist the Company in meeting its objectives. Ensures prompt payment of vendors and suppliers. In-charge of the processing and payment/remittance of Company’s payroll transactions. Prepares all required reports and/or data submitted to various statutory bodies such as Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Social Security System (SSS), Home Development Mutual Fund (HDMF) and Philhealth (PHIC) to ensure accuracy and compliance with statutory requirements. In-charge of the Company’s monthly remittances to the BIR. In-charge of the Company’s PEZA reporting requirements. Advice management on any financial audit to be conducted by Internal Audit and Statutory bodies and manages compliance and preparation of required reports as requested. Provides general assistance to management. Reviews the accounting system and recommends improvements, as needed. Reviews and drafts accounting policies and standard operating procedures; recommends enhancement to balance the service delivery and at the same time to ensure that adequate controls are in place. Conducts performance evaluation of assigned staff. Performs other related tasks as may be assigned from time to time.
AUREOS PHILIPPINE ADVISERS INC.				
1210 Prestige Tower, F. Ortigas Jr. Road	Ortigas Center, Pasig City
Financial Controller - SEA
October 1, 2007 – November 30, 2013
Manages the accounting and finance function for South East Asia Region, China and Pacific Island. Monitoring the cash/treasury of the region ensuring that each offices has sufficient cash and within the budget. Review the expense claim of the country manager and make sure that the expenses are approved as per budget. Review the financial report of the region, analyze variance from budget. Prepare budget for the region. Monitor that the target is meet by each office. Coordinates with Auditor with regards to Audited FS of the various Entity. Prepare and review report that the is send out to Investor on quarterly basis. Prepare call and distribution notices to Investor, ensuring that the amount is correct and in accordance with Shareholder Agreement and Investment Agreement. Ensuring that all statutory requirements are submitted on time. Perform task as required by head office.
PR GAZ HAUS HOLDINGS				
Ortigas, Pasig City
Accounting Department Head
January 16, 2005– September 30, 2007
                 Overall in charge of accounting department. Oversee the preparation of the financial statement of the company and the related affiliates. Analyze the financial statements and provide management the necessary information useful in making decisions for control and cost cutting measures. Oversee the operation of treasury department. Do necessary task for better operations of the company.	
Cash Management
November 2003 – January 15, 2005
Monitoring the daily cash position of the following company: PR 1 Gas, Inc.; PR 2 Gas, Inc.; PR 3 Gas, Inc.; PR 4 Gas, Inc.; PR 1 Gas Marketing Inc.; PR 2 Gas Marketing Inc.; PR 3 Gas Marketing, Inc.; and  Gaz Haus Holdings, Inc. Monitoring the daily cash purchase of the Gas Inc. Co. Monitoring payments of loans and interest. Approval of checks for disbursement. Preparation of invoice for bank financing purposes. Preparation of invoice for bank financing purposes. Preparation of Daily Cash Position Report. Preparation of Bank Reconciliation. Preparation of Statement of account for interest and insurance charges for each of the above company. Monitoring payment of  Plant LPG withdrawal to Caltex Phils.. Monitoring payment of each Marketing Co.  to Gas Inc. Co. Receive collection from affiliates and issue corresponding O.R.
PR 1 Gas Inc.				
Greenhills, San Juan
Accountant
February 2003 – November 2003
Preparation of Monthly Financial Statement of PR 1 Gas Marketing, Inc., PR 2 Gas Marketing, Inc., PR 3 Gas Marketing, Inc. ( the financial statement which shows the result of operation of each branch or outlet). Preparation of Monthly Bank Reconciliation. Preparation of Monthly Journal Entry of PR 1 Gas, Inc., PR 2 Gas, Inc., and PR 3 Gas, Inc. Review the Financial Statement submitted by the PR 1 Gas, Inc., PR 2 Gas, Inc., and PR 3 Gas, Inc. plant accountant. Preparation of Monthly and Quarterly Vat Returns. Preparation of Other Government Requirements. Audit the expenses of each branch of Marketing, Inc. for replenishment.
Accountant
November 2001 – February 2003
Preparation of monthly financial statement of PR 1 Gas, Inc., PR 2 Gas, Inc., PR 3 Gas, Inc. Preparation of sales book. Preparation of Cash Receipt Book. Preparation of Cash Disbursement Book. Preparation of Journal Book. Preparation of Supporting Schedules to Financial Statements.Maintaining the Accounts Receivable Ledger of the Company. Preparation of Daily Report. Preparation of Bank Reconciliation Statement. Preparation of Governmental requirement. Maintaining the Book of the Company for BIR Purposes
EDUCATION
UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES 
Diliman Quezon City
Master in Business Administration
June 2005- April 2008
POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES
Sta. Mesa, Manila
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy – “Cum laude”
1997-2001
SAPANG PALAY NATIONAL HIGH SCHOOL
SJDM Bulacan
1993-1997 – 2nd Honorable Mention
SAPANG PALAY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
SJDM Bulacan
1987-1993 – 2nd Honorable Mention