JESSEL T. RIVERA, CPA				
8410 Gomburza St. Gena Ext.
Sto. Nino, Paranaque City
09662800782
jesselrivera1215@yahoo.com
OBJECTIVE:
A position in a respected and esteemed institution wherein I will be of  great significance to the realization of the organizational aspirations through the exploit of my auditing and accounting proficiency, leadership accomplishment and humane socialization. 
Areas of Expertise:
Financial Analysis
Tax and Corporate Compliance
General Accounting
Cost Accounting
Financial Statements Preparation
Business Process Improvement
Highlights of Qualifications:
Certified Public Accountant with 9 years of experience in Logistics Industry.
Finance Manager in F2 Global Logistics, Inc. with exposure to various sections in Finance and Accounting Department, i.e. Billing and Collection, AP & Treasury, Tax and Compliance, Cost Accounting and General Accounting.
Proficient in Seamain, ALSS and FMS.
Organized, responsible, can work under time constraints and minimal supervision.
Results-oriented and driven to succeed.
Professional Experiences:
F2 Global Logistics Inc.
2014-Present
Key responsibilities as Finance Manager in AP& Treasury Section:
Overseeing routine department activities such as check preparation, check disbursement, to ensure that they are completed accurately and on time.
Manage cash forecasting payments to ensure and maintain better relationship with local suppliers.
Validation of invoices forwarded by OPS.
Negotiate with vendors and service providers.
Handles reconciliation with suppliers.
Ensure on time liquidation of cash advances.
Key responsibilities as Finance Manager in General Accounting Section:
Responsible for ensuring correct, accurate and timely recording revenues, expenses and other financial activities of the company.
Validate the recorded revenue by downloading the encoded transactions in the system and matching it with corresponding expenses incurred to ensure accuracy and completeness of data.
Handled bookkeeping which includes but not limited to Bank Reconciliation, AR/AP, setting up of payments and monthly/annual reports. 
Assist our SVP-Finance to prepare monthly Financial Statement
Update management on financial results by generating financial statements with variance analysis and gross profit per customer for information and guidance in decision making.
Coordinate and assist with internal and external auditor during engagement by ensuring that documents and records are available and updated to speed up audit process and results. 
Monitor unbilled jobs and ensure that all jobs delivered in that particular month will be billed and recognized as revenue.
Validate costs that are being encoded in the system. 
Key Responsibilities as Finance Manager in Tax and Compliance:
Ensure on time payment of business permits.
Ensure on time filing of taxes monthly, quarterly and annually.
Assist on providing requirements for renewal of permits.
Key Responsibilities as Finance Assistant in Billing and Collection:
Ensures correct and on time billing to customers.
Sending weekly SOA to customers.
Prepares weekly aging of accounts receivables.
Collect and follow up payments from customers by calling, issuing collect and demand letter, emailing/faxing SOA and reconcile discrepancy to ensure timely payment by customers and better cash management.
EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND:
TERTIARY EDUCATION: 	Bachelor of Science in Accountancy
				Lyceum of Philippines University
				With Honors
				2008-2013
SECONDARY EDUCATION: Sta. Praxedes National High School
			            Salutatorian
				2004-2008
PRIMARY EDUCATION:   Sta. Praxedes Central School
			       1st Honorable Mention
			        1998-2004					
ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATION:
Philippine Institute of Certified Public Accountants
2013-Present
CHARACTER REFERENCES:
Devie Anne Dayot
Finance Manager
TKHS Group Inc.
09178810324
Jonathan Salas
Finance Manager
F2 Global Logistics Inc,
09232212688