Joseph Rainville P. Castasus
Experience | Resolve Global Logistics Corp. (Formerly: JPP Cargo Logistics, Inc.)	
Finance Director (June 2025 – Present) – Manila City

Financial strategy, governance, and policies
Oversight of AR, AP, GL & Compliance, Treasury
Approval of financial reports, budgets, and disbursements
Liaison with auditors, banks, and regulators
Enforcement of segregation of duties and controls

8Sonaka Incorporated
The Icon Clinic Plastic Surgery & Dermatology Clinic, Inc.
Sonaka Dermatology Inc.	
Group Finance Manager (February 2022 – June 2025) – San Juan City

Financial
Develop and oversee financial plans, budgets, and forecasts.
Analyze financial data and provide insights to support strategic decision-making.
Monitor financial performance against budget and report on variances.
Review costings for product launches.
Monitor production costings and ensure yield efficiency.
Prepare and present financial statements (income statement, balance sheet, cash flow statement) accurately and on time.
Established and implemented internal controls.
Ensure compliance with accounting standards and regulations.
Identify cost-saving opportunities and efficiency improvements.
Implement cost control measures and monitor their effectiveness.
Contribute to the development of the organization’s financial strategy.
Align financial goals with overall business objectives.
Communicate financial information and analysis to executives.
Address financial inquiries and provide insights into the financial health of the organization.
Established finance organization structure. 
Lead a finance team, providing guidance, mentorship, and supervision.
Foster a culture of financial discipline and accountability within the organization.

Cash Flow & Treasury Management
Manage treasury functions, including cash management and banking relationships.
Manage cash flow to ensure the organization's liquidity and solvency.
Optimize working capital by overseeing receivables and payables.

Compliance
Ensure compliance with tax laws and regulations.
Established compliance monitoring and approved tax budgets. 
Coordinate financial audits and work with auditors to provide required information.

Systems & Technology
Implemented internal financial systems and software for the improvement of financial processes.
Project Manager of the ERP system Implementation.
Approved IT purchases and ensured data security. 

Astra Multimarket Corporation		

Senior Accountant (December 2019 – October 2021) – Quezon City
General Accountant (September 2018 - November 2019)

Accounting

Assisted other departments as they develop strategies, establish objectives, and make decisions which could have a financial impact on the business
Provide the management a reliable and relevant financial information periodically including financial analysis, comparative reports against the previous year, and against the budget
Developed strategies that work to minimize financial risk
Cooperate with business units and support functions across company
Prepare monthly and annual Financial Statements 
Analyzed revenue, expenses, cash flows, and balance sheets
Prepare bank reconciliation on a monthly basis
Establish and update the accounting policies of the Company
Improve the accounting process and establish the internal control 
Check the accuracy, completeness and validity of all supporting documents 
Review and approve employee cash advances, reimbursements and petty cash replenishments in accordance with Company policies
Monitor receivables from customers and payables to supplier
Monitor inventory inflow and outflow, including costing
Record daily transactions and maintain the accounting records of the Company such as journals and ledgers
Prepare check vouchers for all cash disbursements
Assist the external auditor for year-end audit

Treasury

Monitor disbursements and collections for accurate daily cash balance
Prepare documents and requirements for bank loan purposes
Coordinate with account officer for bank-related transactions
Monitor issued PDC to suppliers and ensure cheques are sufficiently funded

Taxation

Prepare and monitor tax budget
Process the BIR registration of the new Company and eFPS application
Prepare monthly and quarterly tax payments and returns of the Company (Value Added Tax, Expanded withholding, Income Tax)
Comply to other BIR reportorial requirements such as summary list of sales and purchases (as attachment to quarterly VAT returns)
Encoding to BIR program and e-submission deadline is every 25th day of the month following the quarter
Process the BIR registration of the new Company

AMC & Associates 	

Semi-Senior Audit Supervisor (November 2016 - August 2018) – Makati City

Assists in the planning phase of every audit engagements.
Understands the clients' business and financial reporting systems.
Examines and analyzes accounting records to determine financial status of establishment and prepares financial reports concerning operating procedures. 
Reviews data regarding material assets, liabilities, capital stock, income, and expenditures of the client.
Collects and analyzes data to detect deficient controls, duplicated effort, extravagance, fraud, or non-compliance with laws, regulations, and management policies.
Performs test of internal controls and substantive testing of account balances as part of audit procedures and documents the execution of audit procedures.
Performs overall financial statement analyses and investigates significant fluctuations noted.
Capable to draft complete package of financial statements including explanatory notes and annual Income Tax Returns (ITRs).
Capable to draft letters of recommendations for improvement of client's internal control structure, accounting system and operating efficiency.
Assigned in an agreed upon engagement with a foundation and Internal audit engagment with a real estate company.
Clients handled are  banks, manufacturing, advertising, transport and insurance companies.
Skills | Extensive knowledge on International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) / Philippine Financial.
Reporting Standards (PFRS), Philippine Standards on Auditing (PSA) and other pronouncements issued by authorized standard setting bodies.
Extensive knowlegde in BIR Compliance.
Strong leadership and management skills
Extensive MS Excel experience and strong skills in maintaining accurate Excel spreadsheets.
Excellent familiarity with other Microsoft Office applications (e.g. Word, PowerPoint).
Possesses strong analytical and problem-solving skills, with the ability to make well thought of decisions.
Excellent written and verbal communication skills.
Highly dependable, trustworthy and ethical.
Able to work under pressure.
Resourceful in the completion of projects, effective at multi-tasking.
Extensive knowledge in ERP implementation.
Education | University of Batangas – Lipa City	March 24, 2016
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy
Personal Information | Date of Birth	:		April 7, 1994
Place of Birth	:		President Quirino, Sultan Kudarat
Gender	:		Male
Nationality	:		Filipino
Civil Status	:		Single
Seminars
Attended | All about TRAIn Law and Latest BIR Implementing Regulations
PICPA, Mandaluyong City – October 28, 2019

Mastering Withholding Tax, VAT & Income Tax and the Effects of TRAIn Law
PICPA, Mandaluyong City – December 5, 2019