Contact
Work Experience
Expertise
Financial Analysis and Reporting
Budget Planning and Monitoring
Phone
0961-4849205
Addres
241 J. Rizal St., Mandaluyong City
Email
kristina.gan23@gmail.com
Tax Management
Cash Management
System Migration
Policy and Procedure Development
SAP
Systems
Results-oriented Finance Manager with extensive experience in financial analysis,
forecasting, and budget management. Expert in evaluating company P&Ls, identifying
key revenue and profitability drivers, and designing rolling forecast systems to improve
operational planning. Adept at overseeing the month-end close process, ensuring
accuracy in financial reporting, and leading financial teams. Proven track record in
identifying cost-reduction opportunities, managing advertising and promotion budgets,
and developing pricing strategies for new product launches. Strong background in tax
compliance, cash flow projections, and bank reconciliation. Skilled at mentoring and
driving continuous improvement in financial operations.
Kristina
Solitario - Gan
Certified Public Accountant
Team Leadership and Mentoring
QuickBooks
Oracle
Xero
QuickBooks Online
SAP Business One
D365
Solver
Tableau Excel
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy
Polytechnic University of the Philippines
2004-2008 
Education
Sage
2016-2021
Asst. Finance Manager | Vouno Trade and
Marketing Corporation (Kopiko)
Provides ﬁnancial report and interpret ﬁnancial information to
Management while recommending further course of action.
Monitors and controls Advertising and Promotion budget for
twenty-three (23) brands (93Skus) and gauge possible cost-
reduction opportunities.
Analyze cost, pricing, and company’s performance compared
to budget and last year results.
Develops pricing strategy and Gross Margin Analysis for new
products to be launched in the market
Ensures compliance to ﬁling and payment requirement of
Bureau of Internal Revenue and Local Government Unit. Lead
the resolution of open tax audit conducted by BIR.
Oversees Accounts Payable Team.
Provides Monthly Cash Flow Projection and Bank Reconciliation.
Ensures accuracy of all recorded transaction.
Oversees operations of the ﬁnance department composed of
10 FTEs. Ensures that individual and group objectives are met.
Conduct financial analysis of monthly, quarterly, and annual
financial performance to determine key drivers impacting
company department P&Ls.
Analyze operation programs and bridge impact to revenue
and profitability.
Generated and analyzed forecasts, tracking key metrics in
sales, 
finance, 
and 
other 
business 
areas 
to 
support
operational efficiency.
Participate 
in 
business 
re-engineering 
process 
and
continuously identify workflow efficiency-improvement and
cost-savings opportunities.
Support the month-end close process by providing latest
estimate of monthly results and commentaries.
Guides team through high volume, complex invoicing process.
Including collaboration on issues with cross-functional teams
and/or clients. Drives discussions with Client Services, Exec
Leadership and Client POC where appropriate.
Led and mentored financial analysts, supporting their
professional development and ensuring the continuous
improvement of team performance.
Responsible for understanding and complying with all
contracts, policies, procedures, and regulations relating to job
duties.
Drive discussion with all levels of Executive leadership to
develop and share strategic ideas to support business
financial goals. Create and evaluate multiple scenarios to
determine best path forward
Sr. Financial Analysis Manager | AFNI Philippines Inc
2022 - Present
Forecasting
Accounts Receivable and Payable

2014-2016
Finance Manager | B&S Design Services Inc
Prepares monthly and annual reports and ability to interpret
ﬁnancial results and analyze ﬁnancial information
Maintains and operates bank accounts of the organization to
ensure 
eﬃcient 
management 
of 
company’s 
ﬁnancial
resources.
Coordinate with various external parties such as tax
accountants, bank auditors, vendors, and customers.
Provides supervision and direction to Finance and Admin staff
to ensure that company goals and objectives are met.
2011-2014
Accountant | Global Payments Process
Centre Incorporated
2009-2011
Accountant | ABS-CBN Share Service Pte, Ltd
Performs monthly Proﬁt and Loss and BalanceSheet analysis.
Reviews Payroll Computation of Payroll specialist before
forwarding for payment.
Reviews and Process of invoices and other payables–
(checking, analysis and computation of tax)
Ensure all tax requirements are ﬁled and paid on time.