Maria Echevarria, 
CPA 
 
STRENTHS 
o 
Analytical Appittude 
Financial Analysis, 25+ years of 
experience Analyzing financial 
statements, identifying trends and 
providing recommendations 
  
o 
Innovation Management 
Process improvements, led 
teams in reducing financial 
processing time by 50% through 
the implementation of 
automation and optimizing 
techniques 
 
o 
Budget Management 
Managed approved budget, 
ensuring all expenses were within 
the allocated amount and 
identifying areas for cost-saving 
opportunities 
 
SKILLS 
Financial Planning. Forecasting. 
Accounting & Finance.Risk 
Assesment. Leadership. Strategic 
Mindset 
Communication and Collaboration 
Business Intelligence 
 
ACHIEVEMENTS 
o 
Cross-functional Collaboration 
Collaborated with cross-
functional teams to develop and 
implement Budget Monitoring 
System (BMS) and Purchase 
Requisition System (PRS), 
resulting in increase efficiency 
and accuracy 
 
OTHERS 
o 
Bachelor of Accountancy – St 
Paul College QC 
o 
Certified Public Accountant 
06 June 1990 Reg#83141 
o 
ACCA Diploma in Accounting & 
Business 
03 December 2018 Reg#4104394 
o 
ACPACI Member 
o PICPA Member 
Mobile Number: +63 09604342042  
Email: echevarria.ase@yahoo.com        
Linkdin.com/in/maria-e-a9b20262 
 
SUMMARY 
 
37 years of relevant progressive work experience since 1990 in various industries 
(Retail, Distribution, Pawnshop, Remittance Construction), a Key Member of the 
Management team. I am a perfect fit for a company that seeks a seasoned 
professional with the ability to work as a business partner with top management 
and offer financial guidance to be on the right track of success in achieving their 
goals. 
 
14 years of Senior Manager Level since year 1998 and 13 years of as Accounting 
Head, Finance/Comptroller (Vice President Level). 
 
Previously assigned role as Investor Relation Officer at IRemit, Inc. 
 
 WORK BACKGROUND 
DEC2024-MAY2025 * FINANCE DIRECTOR * JS UNITRADE 
Group Finance Director of several companies (FMCG, Hotel and Leasing) 
JUN2022-NoV2024 * VP COMPTROLLER * IREMIT, INC.  
Handles the Group Finance Division (Manila Office & Foreign Office) 
JUN2021-JUN2022 * ACCOUNTING HEAD * KBMC (KYOWA) Handles 
Accounts Receivable and Credit & Collection. NS Oracle 
APR2016-DEC2020 * ACCOUNTING HEAD * SINAG PAWNSHOP Group 
Finance Division (15 companies), set up ERP (NAV), author of Policies and 
Procedures Manual. 
JUL2016–DEC2016 * VP COMPTROLLER* MAGUINDANAO DIST  
Handles Nestle Distributor & Trucking Business in Mindanao 
APR2015 – JUL2015 * ACCOUNTING HEAD * LAWSON PHILS  
Set up of the ERP NAV, development of Policies and Procedures, Financial 
reporting, Payables, Receivables, Tax compliance 
SEP2012 – OCT2014 * VP FINANCE * RICHWELL PHILIPPINES  
Companies related to toys, shoes, toys, baby products, apparels and module 
contractors 
JUL2008-SEP2012 * SENIOR ACCOUNTING MANAGER * SM RETAIL  
Opening Team: Set up and Training (Accounting Dept) SM Branches: Marikina, 
Naga, Rosario, Tarlac, Calamba, Masinag, Olongapo, Novaliches, General 
Santos, Baliwag, San Pablo and San Fernando  
MAY1998-JUN2008 * REGIONAL ACCOUNTING MANAGER * SM RETAIL 
Handles Central 2 (Manila Area): SM Quiapo, SM Manila, SM San Lazaro, SM 
Sta. Mesa and SM Harrison  
JUN1995-MAY1998 * SENIOR ANALYST  * SM RETAIL 
Handles SM Department store Semi-Annual Budget preparation and monthly 
monitoring of SM Department store assigned 
MAY1991-JUN1995 * ACCOUNTING SUPRVISOR * VIDEO CITY  
Accountant handles the General Accounting books of account  
JAN1991-MAY1991 * INTERNAL AUDITOR * JAG JEANS  
Monitors physical inventory and tagging of the Fixed Assets of the company 

 PROGRESSIVE WORK EXPERIENCE 
STRATEGIC 
LEADERSHIP AND 
TEAM  MANAGEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SYSTEMS AND POLICY 
DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL ACCOUNTING 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TAXES, LICENSES AND 
COMPLIANCE 
 
 
TREASURY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o Collaborate with executive management to determine strategic direction  
o Champion and promote the organization’s vision, mission, and value 
o Organize the department in terms of resources and processes 
o Ensure the resources are in place to support a high-value environment 
o Take overall accountability for ensuring the team commits to meet defined 
service level agreements and in compliance to all organizational policies 
procedures and programs 
o Oversee recruiting, hiring and training of staff by providing support and 
resources to ensure performance feedback system is in place and 
developmental plans are carried out. 
o Align department’s and team’s objectives with organizational and customer 
objectives and in support of organization’s vision, mission, and values 
o Motivate the team to achieve individual & team goals by setting performance 
objectives & standards, monitoring, evaluating and discussing performance. 
Conduct performance reviews and administer rewards 
 
o Design, implement and continually improve the financial system and related 
systems necessary to enable the company gather the information and 
generate reports needed to make sound business decisions 
o Establish, review and improve the system ensuring Finance compliance to 
company policies and procedures. 
o Alignment of all Finance policies and procedures based on requirements. 
o Coordinate with other departments to assess internal controls, focusing on 
operational and efficiency 
 
o Ensure timely and accurate reporting of financial information 
o Analyze financial information detailing assets, liabilities and statements of 
operations 
o Direct local statutory audit requirements with external auditors 
o Provide advisory support to management such as but not limited to 
interpreting the budget, identifying opportunities and areas for improvement 
on the financial aspect, use of financial resources and assumptions 
underlying budgets and forecasts 
o Analyze records of present and past operations, trends and costs, estimated 
and realized revenues, administrative commitments, and obligations 
incurred to project future revenues and expenses and forecasted cash 
working requirements  
 
o Oversee tax compliance matters (SSS, PHIC, HDMF, LGU’s, BIR, SEC, DTI) 
o Ensure accurate and timely reporting and payment of taxes o Hands on 
overseeing External Audits and BIR & BSP audits  
 
o Oversee cash management banking and financial institution relationship  
o Implement new technologies to improve cash cycle & simplify operations 
o  Forecast interest expense and income 
 
 
 

PAYROLL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN-HOUSE SYSTEMS AND 
ERP SOFTWARE 
 
 
 
 
TRAININGS AND 
SEMINARS 
o Ensure all reconciliations are completed in an accurate and timely manner o 
Establish and maintain short-term credit availability which includes revolving 
credit agreements to provide liquidity for the Company (Letter of Credit /Line 
Of Credit /Trust Receipt)  
o Remain current on and in compliance with local legal requirements on 
existing and new legislation o Review payroll records and approves changes 
on exemptions, insurance coverage, job titles and department/division 
transfer  
 
o Project in-charge of In-house developed accounting systems o Project in-
charge for implementation of ERP (Oracle, NAV, ERIC) 
o In charge of development of Accounting Policies and Procedures Manual and 
Instructional Manual for in-house developed accounting systems 
(automation) 
 
o Sustainability in Finance (PICPA-ACCA) 
➢ Climate Risk and Reporting 
➢ Sustainable Development Goals and Their Impact 
➢ ESG Performance and Metrics / Sustainability Analytics 
o Annual Corporate Governance 
➢ AMLA Compliance  in the age of the Digital World 
➢ Cybersecurity Governance: Challenges and Solutions 
o Culture of Innovation and Beyond 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Transformative Financial &  Operational Leadership 
 
Dear Sir: 
 
In the past financial managers and executives are effective through raising capital and instituting controls. 
Today, to be effective one must be more than a financial manager. To be on-board, I offer expertise as a 
transformative change leader, strategic business partner and administrative operations manager. 
 
I have in-depth experience in all areas of accounting and financial management. I possess excellent 
communication skills and I am able to convey information to key stakeholders efficiently. My expertise in 
finance is keen. I have the ability to find ways to maintain financial efficiency and to comply with all laws 
regarding finance.  
 
However, the true value of my contribution is found in my leadership ability. A respected and inspirational 
leader. I put great effort into addressing the needs of all stakeholders. I thrieve on challenges found in high 
stress situations and use a calm, analytical approach to secure commitment, trust and support from all 
involved.  
 
I am a lifelong learner; I always believe in continuous growth. In addition to my Bachelor in Accountancy, 
Certified Public Accountant (Philippines) and ACCA Diploma in Accounting and Business credentials. 
 
I have the background and proven capabilities to positively effect financial and operational business change 
to support any company strategic direction. 
 
Respectfully, 
 
 
Maria Echevarria, CPA