Permanent Address:311 Block 4 Buildersville Condominium, Marindal St. Brgy Rincon Valenzuela City
Cell     	09282101819 
E-mail	: lourdesacctg@yahoo.com ; lourdesacctg343@gmail.com
Ma. Lourdes Mariano-Espinosa, CPA
Qualification Summary | With aggregate experience of almost 9 years in internal auditing and more than 20 years experience as Financial Plannint and Analysis  (Controllership, MIS and Budgets) doing the regular daily financial transactions (Accounts payable, receivable collections)  management and board financial reporting, planning, managing, preparation, reporting, analysis, allocation and certification of expenditure of the various companies’  groups, divisions and departments I have worked with.
Work Experiences | Flexo Manufacturing Corporation
Finance Controller
Oversees the  Accounting team on the daily Accounts Payable processing, Collections and Reportorial Compliance with SEC, BIR and other local government units requiring our financial reporting.
Provides improvement in Accounting and Reports processes to avoid delays in payments and ensure compliance with all tax payment requirements
Coordinates and oversees annual financial audit by the external auditors and regulatory (BIR and LGU) auditors.
Coach accounting staff to comply with their respective job descriptions and turn around time of processing

Business Audit Systems Integration and Consulting
(BASIC) - October 2021 to February 2025

As Business Development Manager
June 2024 to February 15, 2025
Oversees the  Finance team of various companies engaged to our consulting firm (Medexpress, Healthy Options, Quick Cross Marketing,  etc) as the Head of the Accounting Services Pillar of BASIC
Part of the management team who works in strategic planning, sales management and prospecting of new clients to help grow our organization (pitching our company and understanding the nature and accounting processes of our clients)

As Finance Manager Consultant under
MEDFORD RX SOLUTIONS, INC.
Medexpress Drugstores
October 25, 2021 to May 2024
Oversees the Finance Organizational Team and provide improvement on the Accounting and Reports processes necessary for the achievement of the Company’s goals and objectives providing strategic recommendations to the General Manager and members of the Management Committee (MannComm) in terms of short and long term business process improvements and financial planning 
Provides new company policies rand where necessary ,recommends corrective actions to safeguard the company’s assets
Directs the development and implementation of a financial control system to govern the allocation, use, receipt and disbursement of funds.
Works closely with business units to coordinate and review annual budget plans, rolling quarterly and monthly forecasts and monitors compliance of approved annual operating budget and report variances. Provides financial advice to improve pricing policy, budget, forecast quality and actual financial performance.
Coordinates and oversees annual financial audit by the external auditors and regulatory auditors.
Trains and develops competency of all  staff and inspire each team member to imbibe Corporate Core Values. 
Develop strategies to meet the team's Key Performance Tasks both from outsource company (BASIC) and internal employees of the client company,


HOME MARK INC.
Nov 23, 2020 to July 31, 2021
Assistant Vice President 
Controllership Division

Oversees the design of an organizational structure adequate for achieving the Company’s goals and objectives providing strategic recommendations to the Chairman / President and members of the Executive Management team (in terms of long term business and financial planning)
Plans, oversees, and implements the various functions of the Finance and Funds Management (Collection and Disbursement) Department, Accounting and Control Department and Financial Reports and Compliance Department and its corresponding units such as general accounting, accounts payable trade and non-trade, credit management, assets & risk management and financial reporting & regulatory compliance management
Directs and coordinates all activities related to the professional financial management of the organization
Conducts periodic review of all financial activities, develops accounting policies and procedures. Implements prescribed internal control measures to ensure integrity of all financial transactions.
Ensures compliance with government requirements for financial transactions.
Ensures that all disbursements issued by the company are compliant with company policies and government regulations.
Works closely with business units to coordinate and review annual budget plans, rolling quarterly and monthly forecasts and monitors compliance of approved annual operating budget and report variances. Provides financial advice to improve budget, forecast quality and actual financial performance.
Coordinates and oversees annual financial audit.
Trains and develops competency of all  staff and inspire each team member to imbibe Corporate Core Values. 
Develop strategies to meet the team's Key Performance Indicators

METRO PACIFIC TOLLWAYS MANAGEMENT SERVICES INC.
Dec 11, 2019 to August31, 2020
Internal Audit Manager – Consultant
Main responsibilities are :
Develop and prepareannualrisk-based audit plan alignedwith business objectives, on assigned area of responsibility and assists CAE in the consolidation of the annual audit plan by performing the following: 
Understand the organization’sindustry and recognize key performance drivers, business trends and emergingtechnical and industrydevelopments;
Stayinformed of general business/ economicdevelopments and their impact to the business. 
Conductscheduling of audit projects, resource allocation, and monitoring progress of the team and ensurecompletion of audit projects on time. 
Be responsible for the preparation of annual budget and quarterly monitoring of actualexpenses. 
Perform end-to-end audit of complex and specialprojects as assigned. 
Ensurethat the projectsunderher area of responsibility are progressing as scheduled, best practices and systemsaeintegratedinto the audit programs; and executed in conformancewith ISPPIA Standards. 
Review and analyzes audit reports to ensurequality and completeness of supportingworkingpapersprior to sign-off and release of audit reports. 
Conduct performance management reviewof  the audit team at the end of each engagement and shallperformsregular coaching and annual performance reviews of  the team. 
Manage and support the Quality Assurance and Improvement program (QAIP).
Build and maintain good workingrelationship and network within the organization and coordinateswith the management to takenecessary action on audit observations. 
Preparepresentationmaterials for various meetings. 
Identify areas for improvements of the audit activity and providesvaluable inputs/recommendations for the continuousimprovements of the audit’sinternalprocesses. 
Keepsabreast of the new developments in the toll road industry, applicable technologies (and risks), and in the internal audit practices/profession. 
Maintainsprofessional and technicalknowledge by attendingtrainings:readingprofessional publications; establishingpersonal networks; participating in professional groups. 
Contributes to team effort by accomplishingrelatedresults as needed;recommends new policies and procedures.
Adhoc Task
Point person to address 2019 Quality Assurance and ImprovementProgram (QAIP) findings and voluntereed to assist in the revision of the Internal Audit Manual for 2020 implementation.

Started the planning and preparation of audit programs, checklist and  testtemplates for 2020 QAIP Self AssessmentReview of the Internal Audit Division in preparation for theirupcomingExternal QAIP.

UnipromInc – Araneta Group
March 25, 2019 to Nov 27, 2019
Senior Accounting Manager

Mainlyresponsible for planning, implementing, directing and coordinating the controllership and budgetaryfunctions of the company.
Develops and recommendsfinancial, accounting and budgetarypolicies and programs of the company and directs theirimplementationuponapproval
Reviewscompanypoliciesregularly and wherenecessary,recommends corrective actions to safeguard the company’s assets
Directs the development and implementation of a financial control system to govern the allocation, use, receipt and disbursement of funds.
Directs the preparation, review, and analysis of all financial reports and statements submitted to top management or to government agencies
Directs the preparation and implementation of the company’sbudgetary system, including the analysis of budget variances
Ensures compliance with all relevant legislations, such as the Tax Code
Assumesresponsibility for the implementation of companypoliciesrules and regulations, as well as the discipline, attendance, work performance, training and development of personnel under supervision
Performs other related duties as assigned from time to time
Work Experiences | The Walt Disney (Philippines), Inc.
October8, 2018 to March 18, 2019
Finance and Accounting Manager - Consultant

Strategic Planning, Budgeting and Forecasting
Prepareannual budget and quarterlyforecastsubmissionsworkingcloselywith business team (currently Studios)
Support 5 year plan presentation and submissionprocesses
Liasewith business teams and otherfunctional teams to gather and evaluate all aspects of revenue and cost information
Provide and communicatetimely and relevant information to key stakeholders, includingRegional Finance Team
Accounting and Financial Closing
Reviewactualcosts, revenues and operating income vs. forecast and budget and provide variance explanation and recommendations for operations
Process accruals and quarter-end adjustments
Analyzecosts and expenses (COGS, operating expenses and allocations)
LiasewithRegional Finance and ASC Team to ensureaccuracy and timeliness of information
Prepare all monthly and quarterly reports and schedulesrequired for submission to Regional and other teams
Assist in othermonth end, quarter end and year end closingtasks as required
Review of monthly, quarterly and annualtaxrequirements and submissions

Cr8tv Web Solutions
Payroll Consultant
July 17 to September 30, 2018
Supervised the Cr8Tv Payroll Team, on their semi-monthlyprocessing of payroll for 2,000 + employees of Client Personal Collection (PC) includingreview of timesheets per personnel and coordination with the Payroll team of PC relating to payroll instructions beforeactualcredit of salaries to employees
Provided computations of Final Pay for resigned/ resigningemployees and providetemplate for TaxAnnualization of eachemployees.
Attendedmonthly meetings with PC HR Team and Finance Director for resolutions on efficiency of payrollprocessing

FRESENIUS MEDICAL CARE
July 2016 to June 2018
As Business Controller for Provider Entities (FMC Renal Care Corp, Mindanao Renal Care, Inc, Asia Renal Care and RSI Dialysis Center)
April 1, 2017 to June 21, 2018

Mainly responsible in the financial planning and analysis relating to overall preparation of annual budgets (and four (4) periodic forecast) of Profit and Loss and Statement of Condition of the entities..Mainly responsible for Credit Control, BS Responsibility: AR/C&C and Inventory

Responsible for monthly and quarterly local management and regional reporting of financials and reporting of clinic profitability with analysis for proper implementation of operational strategies of the Provider Management.

Responsible in managing the Provider Collection Team who acts as liaison with PHIC, PCSO, HMO’s and other Payors.  This is for proper management of the companies’ DSO and Cash flow.

Finance point of contact (POC) to Operations Managers and Marketing of Provider Team and other Head office units such as Medical, HR, Compliance, Legal and Technical Departments

As Internal Control Systems (ICS) Manager
Fresenius Medical Care Phils. Inc. (FMCPI)
July 21, 2016 to March 31, 2017

Responsible for the internal control management for the Philippine entities of Fresenius Medical Care.

In coordination with the process and business control owners, established new policies and procedures to incorporate FACET (Finance and Accounting Control Effectiveness) controls and ensure proper implementation and monitoring for reporting to Country Leadership Team (CLT) and to the ICS AsiaPacific Region

BANCO DE ORO UNIVERSAL BANK
December 2008 to July 2016
As Team Head, MIS-Budget, Disbursements and Schedules Monitoring Unit
Of BDO Leasing and Finance Inc.
December 16, 2015 to July 20, 2016
Mainly responsible in the coordination of the overall preparation of annual budgets (and periodic forecast) of Profit and Loss and Statement of Condition of the company.  

Responsible for budget monitoring, financial analysis and projections of all aspects of the company’s financial statements including volume booking targets and effective interest rates of income and cost of funds.

Responsible for the preparation of various management information for the Comptroller and President for their reporting to the Board of Directors of BDOLF.

Following are the other main responsibilities on top of the MIS-Budget function 

As Disbursement Officer 
Tasks to oversee the overall activities and possible process and system enhancements  for  the Disbursements process of BDO Leasing relating to its operational requirements.
As Supervising on Monitoring of Accounting Schedules
Tasks to oversee the updating and reconciliation of all the important Subsidiary Ledgers of the General Accounting such as the Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable, Miscellaneous Liabilities, Advance Payments Unbooked, Prepaid Expenses, Furnitures, Fixtures and Equipments etc. by making sure that end balances are tally with the General Ledger Books 
Prepares monthly aging reports to ensure that long outstanding items are coordinated with all the units (especially Marketing Teams) of the company and proper disposition are made to resolve these.

As Credit Analyst, Risk Management
Senior Manager
June 16 to Dec 15, 2015
Mainly responsible in assessing credit application thru financial analysis (breakeven, sensitivity analysis and financial ratios) to determine credit viability,  financial performance and credit worthiness of a loan / lease client.
As Team Head, MIS-Budget, Treasury Operations and Control 
Senior Manager
October 2010 to June 15, 2015


Mainly responsible in the coordination of the overall preparation of annual budgets (and periodic forecast) of Profit and Loss and Statement of Condition of the company.  

Responsible for budget monitoring, financial analysis and projections of all aspects of the company’s financial statements including volume booking targets and effective interest rates of income and cost of funds.

Responsible for the preparation of various management information / requirements in coordination with different units such as Marketing, and other departments/branches 

Responsible in handling the consolidation of all reportorial requirements of the company, both external and internal, for submission to the company’s top management (weekly MANCOM and monthly BOARD), and various regulatory bodies such as BangkoSentralngPilipinas (BSP), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE), as well as the Philratings.

As an Adhoc  function, Assisting to the Head, Comptrollership and Operations Department in the review of the operations and systems for possible enhancement and to expedite processing and reporting time for better service to our internal and external stakeholders

Following are the other main responsibilities on top of the MIS-Budget function on budget coordination and financial analysis and reporting of financial statements to top management (MANCOM and Board)

As Treasury Operations  Head
Tasks to oversee the overall activities and possible process and system enhancements  for treasury operations related transactions.
Reviews the monthly and quarterly reports of short-term and long-term commercial papers before submission to SEC.

As Operations Control Head
Responsible for the preparation and updating of  the Operations Manual of all the units under Comptrollership and Operations Group in coordination with the Business Systems Division of the BDO Unibank.

Tasks to perform continuous Operations Review initiatives and provide valuable inputs to the Comptroller and President which should take into consideration the necessary enhancements and possible cost savings to the company.

Currently assigned as the System Application Administrator for the on-going development / configuration of the New Leasing System Project of the company
As Manager 2/Audit Officer, Head Office Audit Unit and Assisting the Head of Internal Audit Division
Banco De Oro – Internal Audit Division
February 2010 to September, 2010 
Tasked to provide a reliable, independent and objective assessment of the Bank’s operations, aiming to add value, through a systematic and disciplined approach in evaluating and improving the effectiveness of internal control, risk management and governance process.

Responsible for monitoring and providing assurance that the Bank’s operational systems are protected and controlled by the business units operating management. This is carried out as part of the approved Internal Audit Plan in accordance with Internal Auditing standards, guidelines and best practices.

As part of my direct reporting to the Head of Internal Audit Division (IAD), provided assistance in preparation of consolidated management reports to Board Audit Committee and MANCOM and monitoring of IAD’s KRIs and KCSA’s and IAD’s Business Continuity Plan and Call Tree, as well as the occasional updating of the IAD Manual of Operations.  		

As Special Projects and Consultancy Officer
Internal Audit Division

December 2008 to February 2010 	

Mainly responsible for the creation of the 2009 Internal Audit Manual of Operations thru internet research, interview and coordination with auditors and management of Internal Audit Division

Designated by the IAD Head as the IAD's Operations Risk Coordinator, with responsibility for submission to Risk Management Unit of specific deliverables or reports (IAD’s KRIs and KCSA’s and IAD’s Business Continuity Plan and Call Tree).

Responsible for the manual or process controls aspect of the internal control design reviews pertaining to the draft policies and the draft Operations Manuals which are referred by Business Systems Division or other Business Units, to IAD for comments.	

With the assistance of the SP & C staff and respective audit departments’ admin assistants, coordinate the Reporting Materials to Board Audit Committee (BAC) and Management Committee (MANCOM).

Investment and Capital Corporation of the Phils. (ICCP) Group
July, 2007 to November 2008
Budget Manager
Responsible for the overall coordination and preparation of annual budgets of 7 companies of the ICCP group (2 Real Estate Developers, 2 Locator's associations, 2 Property Management Services and 1 Foundation) 
Coordinates the timely submission of budget inputs prior to consolidation in the annual budget and  prepares the financial statement (mainly Income statement, Balance sheet and Cash flow statement) and other supporting schedules and analysis (including YTD actuals component).
Coverage:from Operating expenses to final Financial Statements presentations including various scenarios, tax implications and the corresponding analyses for review and deliberation meetings of controller/ senior management.  Final financial statements are for approval of the Board of Directors of respective companies.







ASTRAZENECA PHARMACEUTICALS INC. 
August 2004 to July 2007
As Employee Advances Supervisor
November 2006 to July 2007
Finance Department
Ensures accurate and timely processing of employee cash advances, liquidations and reimbursements in order to provide funds to employees and to reflect accurate account balances.
Ensures that policies and processes are followed in order to meet timely and accurate payment and liquidation.
Ensures that Employee Advances, Liquidations and Reimbursements are validated in accordance with the company’s Internal Control/COC. Addresses key expense issues and escalates as needed.
Ensures that all employee balances are analyzed, reconciled and liquidated within the required timeline indicated in the company policies and procedures.
Ensures that Statements of Accounts are issued out to employees on a regular basis.
Ensures that all General Ledger Controlled Accounts are analyzed and reconciled on a monthly basis
Manages overall Expense Report System
As Financial and Budget Analyst
August, 2004 to October 2006
Finance Department
Mainly responsible in the coordination of the overall preparation of annual budgets (and periodic forecast) of sales, standard costing and operating expenses of the company.  
Recommend the procedures to expedite the entire budget preparation process in an efficient and effective manner 
Coordinate with International counterparts (normally from Australia, Singapore and United Kingdom) with regards to budget processes and reporting requirements / deadlines.
Responsible for budget monitoring, financial analysis and projections of all aspects of the company’s profit and loss report. 
Provides assistance for consolidated profit and loss analysis for  management reporting.
During our Enigma project in 2005, I was part of the team to establish table of accounts and cost center hierarchy and provide  training to Medical Representatives on how to assign entries to proper accounts in their expense reports.

June 1995 to August 2004
As Senior Budget Officer, Budget and MIS Division, Corporate Planning Group, Rizal Commercial Banking Corporation. 
Last rank: Junior Assistant Manager
March 2001 – August 2004                                             
Supervises the overall preparation of annual budgets and periodic forecast of  Operating Expenses and Capital Expenditures of the all units of the Bank and the corresponding analysis thereof for management review and approval 
Review on a regular basis the budget cycle and recommend the procedures to expedite the entire budget preparation process in an efficient and effective manner thru continuous preparation of budget guidelines and coordination with Information Technology and MIS group.

Reviews budgets as prepared by the group to ensure that it is within the approved guidelines of management.
Do monthly preparation of balance sheet, profit and loss statement and other financial reports for management use.
Do monthly analysis of operations, trends, costs, revenues to project future revenue and expenses. Coordination with concerned departments and units was done especially on the variances of actual vs. budgeted on capital and operating expenses to alert them. 
Necessary review, analysis and reporting to management for working budget, forecasting and proposal of plans and actions was done in containing costs. 
Budget-certifies requests for capital expenditures and expenses for monitoring availment against approved budgets, checking  completeness of required documents and monitoring bankwide working budget. To increase awareness and consciousness in the management of resource utilization and costs.
Previously a member of the project teams for the automation of the REquisitionAndDisbursementsYstem (READY) and RC hierarchy maintenance module implemented BANKWIDE.
Prepares work plans / guidelines for the staff and officers of the department to effectively monitor the status of profitability reports, budget preparation, cost allocation, monitoring and other related procedures.

As Internal Auditor  / Special Function Unit Staff
June 1995 to February 2001
Internal Audit Division
Administered the direction and thrust of the audit, the risk areas to be covered and extent/ scope of the audit work including planning for manpower / mandays requirements of audit projects/ engagements
Prepared audit reports for presentation to audit department head, auditees and eventually to top management (i.e., Audit Committee and Board of Directors)
Assigned to perform various extraneous activities of the Internal Audit Division as follows:
Revised the existing audit programs for branches (regular and re-engineered) and some Head Office units   
Prepared the initial audit programs for specialized head office units such as Telemoney Remittance Marketing and Operations and Private Banking Unit
Assisted in the preparation of the standard performance appraisal of the Internal Audit Division, the Key Results Areas (KRA), reviewed monthly expenditures and prepared annual budgets of the Division
Previous Part time Work Experiences | Mariano, ChunPeng and Associates
Supervising External Audit Consultant
Supervised audit fieldwork and providing audit reports on the following clients 
- Functional Inc
- Korea Country Club
- Oceana Bay Resort Vacation and Leisure Club Inc.

Finance Business Partner, Turnkey Enterprise Development Services, Inc.
Finance key person for Bookkeeping, Management Consultancy, Tax Consultancy and Internal Control/ Operations Review engagements with clients focusing on assisting companies to better manage their business thru financial reporting and analysis.
Builder, USANA 
Sold herbal supplemental products of USANA and build team members to do the business
Education | October 1999 – 2003	
Ateneo Graduate School Of Business, Rockwell, Makati City
Completed units in Masters in Business Administration

1990 – 1994
Philippine School of Business Administration, Quezon City
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy
Graduated Cum Laude and awarded as the Most Outstanding Accounting Graduate
Passed the CPA Licensure Exam in November 1994
Latest Seminars Attended | November 14, 2020
Continuing Professional Development – How to deal with our clients?
PICPA Webinar
November 10, 2020
Estate Tax and Estate Tax Amnesty
PICPA Webinar
October 31, 2020
Basic Enterpreneurship for SMEs and Online Businesses
Gingoog PICPA Chapter Webinar
October 27-28, 2020
PICPA MMR Tax Conference
PICPA Webinar
September 15, 2020
Remedies of Taxpayer against Tax Audit
PICPA Webinar
September 18-19,2019
6th Philippine Tax and Accounting Congress
Crown Hotel Plaza
Conducted by various BIR and Accounting firms’ speakers of Powermax Consultancy Group, Inc.
April 2019
Review on Philippine International Reporting Standards relating to Audited FS
Conducted by PICPA

March 2018
IFRS 9 (2018 implementation) and IRFS 15 (2019 implementation) 
Conducted by FMC Germany

March 23, 2018
BIR TRAIN Law conducted by Reyes &Tacondong Accounting Firm.

May 25, 2013
Quantitative Financial Risk Management - Applying Risk Models in Practice
By Banker’s Association of the Philippines (BAIPHIL)
Berjaya Manila Hotel, Makati Avenue, Makati City

April 24, 2013
Unlock the Power of Financial Modeling
By Punongbayan&Araullo
Paseo de Roxas, Makati City

September 22, 2012
Seminar on Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP)
A Course for Non-Risk Management Practitioners.
By Baiphil
City Garden Hotel, Makati Ave, Makati City

May 9 to 10, 2011
Winning with Leasing
By Mr. Sudhir P. Amembal of Amembal& Associates
Asian Institute of Management, Makati City

April  to May 2009
Seminar Series On Developmental Course on Treasury Products
BAIPHIL 
Solidbank Building, Makati City
Current Affiliation | Rotary Club of Cubao, Quezon City– July 2015 to present