MARLENE D. ARADO 
 
Lot 7 Blk. 3 Sierra Madre Circle, Suburban Heights 
 
San Juan Cainta Rizal 
Email Add: aradomarlene@gmail.com 
Celphone no. – 09687332723 
 
 
 
Seek a fulfilling position that will allow me to contribute my knowledge and skills in the maximum potential, 
acquired through dedicated and learning work experience. 
SELF DESCRIPTION: 
 
. Has strong customer focus, high tolerance from stress, initiative to learn, with keen to details, 
 
  enthusiasm and patience in handling the concerns of the customers. 
 
. Multi-tasking and organizational skill; excellent general discipline. 
 
. Pleasing but assertive personality. 
 
. Can effectively work alone or as a cooperative team member. 
 
. Highly trainable and open to new areas of knowledge. 
 
. Can effectively handle situation and professional in approach. 
 
. Can adjust to situation as they come. 
EMPLOYMENT HISTORY: 
April 15, 2024 – April 15, 2025                                                   Enclavewrx Commune Incorporated 
Finance and Audit Officer 
          . Oversee financial planning and reporting. 
          . Ensure compliance , accuracy and support strategic growth for statutory requirements and  
          . Manage  and develop annual budgets and forecasts 
          . Oversee payroll, accounts payable/receivable and general ledger 
               . Manage financial risk (BIR concerns and other government mandatories ) and develop risk  
                 mitigation strategies.                   
          . Lead and mentor a team of finance professionals. 
          . Support strategic decision-making through financial modeling and analysis. 
          . Audits collections from Homeowners as per Aging of accounts receivable 
    September 17, 2019 - October  31, 2023                           Jibsen Int’l. Trading Corp 
         Finance and Admin Manager 
                . Prepares Financial Statements, Treasurer and Finance Committee reports. 
 
. Prepares and records the monthly transactions of the employees’ salary 
 
. Safekeeps all the company investment certificates and other important documents  from the vault. 
. Prepares the Annual budget and perform other tasks which the HK management  and the Manila                           
 
  Officers  may assign from time to time. 

                . Funds flow,Cash position reports, bank reconciliation and aging of receivables 
                . Different filing of government documentations like SEC, Treasurer’s office and renewal of 
                  Business permits  with Barangay clearances. 
                . Year end reports like Alphalist preparations, registrations of books. 
                . Checking of various check vouchers payables (suppliers and mo. utilities) 
                . Checking of schedules of government remittances such as Pag ibig ,Philhealth, SSS and Withholding                                       
                . Financial statements preparations through Quickbooks, Eifos software. 
                . Preparations of the schedules of the monthly, quarterly and annual reports for BIR including the  
                   Electronic filing. 
                . Implementing new and different strategies for management long plan . 
 
 
October 2014 – July 2019   -   Work from Home  ( Acctg Tutorials and Bookeeping works ) 
 
December 01, 2011- August 31, 2014                   Great Job Provider and Manpower Services Inc  
 Acting Head Accountant ( Project based ) 
             . Checking of various check vouchers payables (suppliers and mo. utilities) 
                . Checking of schedules of government remittances such as Pag ibig ,Philhealth, SSS and Withholding                                       
                . Summarizing monthly sales and inventory reports  of the 11 counters  or 6 corporations of IB Gimenez               
                . Preparations of the schedules of the monthly, quarterly and annual reports for BIR including the  
                  Electronic filing. 
                . Financial Reports through  Peach Tree 
                . Financial strategies that would help the company  attain its goal 
                . Preparation of other legal documents, Company memos and business  letters 
                . Other tasks may be assigned by the management or President.  
 
 
Dec. 1, 2008 – Nov.  20, 2011                                                                     COMMUNITY CHEST FOUNDATION, INC. 
Accountant/Bookkeeper    
 
. Assist the Finance Committee Chairman in placing the funds of the foundation in Income producing 
 
  activity/ies at the best terms available by gathering and applying the current interest rates 
                  offered by some banks. 
 
. Verifies the cash collections and records them in the Cash Receipts Journal. 
 
. Prepares the semi-monthly payroll and necessary check payments. 
 
. Records various expenses in the Disbursement Journal. 
 
. Prepares and remits payments to SSS, Pag ibig, Philhealth, BIR and etc. 
 
. Prepares Financial Statements, Treasurer and Finance Committee reports. 
 
. Prepares and records the monthly transactions of the employees’ retirement plan. 
 
. Safekeeps all the company investment certificates and other important documents  from the vault. 
 
. Prepares the Annual budget and perform other tasks which the President  and the Board of Trustees  
 
  may assign from time to time. 
Apr. 26, 1999 – Jun. 28, 2007                                                                      EVER PLAZA , INC. 
Junior Accounting Staff 
 
. Responsible for the recording of Disbursement and Sales Receipts books. 
 
. Handles Bank Reconciliation. 

 
. Handles Government remittances ( SSS, Pag big, Philhealth and BIR ). 
 
. Prepares the Check vouchers for various payables. 
Jan. 20, 1989 – August 15, 1998                                                                 MANILA JOCKEY CLUB, INC. 
Accounting Assistant 
 
. Encodes Sales reports. 
 
. Records expenses to Disbursement book. 
 
. Handles government remittances and liquidation  of Officers’ monthly Reprsentation and gasoline 
 
  allowances.   
SKILLS: 
 
. Proficient in MS Word, MS Excel, Peach Tree Knowledge and Basic Internet. 
 
. Ability to work in a developing or establishing computerized environment. 
 
. Manage to learn and adapt totally different job assignment with a little supervision.  
EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND: 
UNIVERSITY OF THE EAST                                                                                                        SAN MIGUEL ACADEMY 
Recto, Manila                                                                                                                             Masantol, Pampanga 
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy 1988                                                                            Secondary 1980     
MASANTOL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 
Masantol, Pampanga 
Primary 1976 
 
PERSONAL INFORMATION: 
AGE                                                                                              :  58 years old 
BIRTHDATE                                                                                 :  November 02, 1966 
BIRTHPLACE                                                                               :  Masantol, Pampanga 
CIVIL STATUS                                                                             :  Single 
RELIGION                                                                                    :  Roman Catholic 
CITIZENSHIP                                                                               :  Filipino 
MOTHER                                                                                     :  Estrelita D. Arado 
FATHER                                                                                       :  Otilio B. Arado ( deceased ) 
 
                                                                                                                                                 MARLENE D. ARADO 
                                                                                                                                                  Applicant’s signature