Availability: 1 month notice
      
 
MICHAEL STEPHEN GO
Finance / Accounting Manager
(+63) 917 5502778
michaelstephengo@yahoo.com
Kapitolyo, Pasig City
ABOUT ME
 
A mid 30’s, board-certified 
Accountant with more 
than 10 years of 
accumulated accounting-
related experiences 
obtained from both small-
medium businesses and 
multinational companies 
(MNC). A well-rounded 
strategic accounting 
partner, adept in producing 
accurate and high-quality 
output, who possesses the 
required integrity and 
maturity in dealing with all 
levels of stakeholders. 
 
 
PROFESSIONAL 
QUALIFICATION 
 
Certified Public 
Accountant (CPA) 
Philippines Board Passer, 
October 2010 
 
Saint Louis University 
Bachelor’s Degree in 
Accountancy 
2005-2010 
 
 
. 
PERSONAL INFO 
 
Married with 3 kids 
Currently living in 
Kapitolyo, Pasig and 
available to travel for 
interviews elsewhere with a 
day’s notice 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 
 
Fashion Rack Designer Outlet Inc.  
(https://fashionrack.com.ph/)  
An outlet store that feature a variety of brands from different categories at discounted  
 
Finance Manager 
November 2020 to Present| Highway Hills, Mandaluyong  
 
In this Role, I’m directly reporting to our  Group Finance Manager (CFO). With the help of my team consisting of  
6 accountants who are handling the books of more than 10 companies, we are producing reports used by the 
management for decision making.  I have improved the accounting process to produce a more accurate reports 
in a timely manner. I also reduce the risk of fraudulent activities by updating the company policies. 
 
My task includes but not limited to Preparation of Financial Statements . I make sure that the companies are in 
compliance with government mandated taxes and reports.  I’m also assisting the external auditors and BIR 
examiners. I also help in the implementation of new ERP system which is Oracle Netsuite. 
 
AMMEX ISUPPORT INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION  
(https://www.isupportworldwide.com/)  
A BPO company providing manpower to offshore companies 
 
Senior Accountant 
June 2020 to October 2020| Ortigas Center, Pasig City  
 
My tasks include, but are not limited to: Preparation of billings to clients, monthly 
management report. Analysis and reconciliation of accounts, journal vouchers 
preparation, Filing and remittance of taxes (income tax, VAT, CWT & EWT), 
company compliance to all government bodies i.e. BIR and PEZA related..  
 
AGUIRRE TRUCKING & JMF ENTERPRISES  
A medium-sized, family-owned business providing trucking, construction & build services 
 
Accountant 
Jan 2018 to May 2020 | Pilar, Bataan 
 
In this role, I have built the entire business accounting setup from scratch, as well as established 
good accounting practices, internal control and processes. I have initiated operational cost-saving 
measures, constantly on the look-out for beneficial tax breaks that will maximize the business’ 
revenue and minimize losses. I also look after the sourcing of vendors and potential suppliers, 
price negotiation and handling the collection of customer payments (Accounts Receivables) in a 
timely manner. As my father-in-law owns the business, I am given a wide latitude of 
empowerment in operations and financial decision-making aspects of the business. 
 
My tasks include, but are not limited to: monthly management report preparation and analysis, 
reconciliation reports, journal vouchers preparation, employee payroll, preparation, filing and 
remittance of taxes (income tax, VAT, CWT & EWT), company compliance to all government 
bodies i.e. BIR registration, permit applications and renewals as well as petty cash fund 
management 
 
PUSH ASSOCIATES, INC. (www.pushassociates.com) 
A specialized marketing agency with portfolios in the areas of brand, events, consumer, shopper and digital 
marketing 
 
Accounting Supervisor 
May-Dec 2017 | Ortigas Center, Pasig City 
 
During my brief stint with the company, I managed to fix their defective A/R collection system and 
in doing so, was able to collect an additional Php 5-6 million in previously uncollected customer 
Receivables. I helped with the company’s tax planning exercise as well as decision-making for 
employees’ bonuses and provision for additional allowances. As Reporting Line Manager, I had 2 
direct reports (company’s Admin & Messenger) and was responsible for supervising their daily 
tasks. 
 
My tasks included, but were not limited to: revenue forecasting, monthly management report 
preparation and analysis, reconciliation reports, journal/ A/P vouchers preparation, A/R collection, 
employee payroll, preparation, filing and remittance of taxes (income tax, VAT, CWT & EWT), 
company compliance to all government bodies i.e. BIR registration, permit applications and 
renewals as well as petty cash fund management 
 

Availability: 1 month notice
      
 
MICHAEL STEPHEN GO
Finance / Accounting Manager
(+63) 917 5502778
michaelstephengo@yahoo.com
Kapitolyo, Pasig City
STRENGTHS
 
 
Accounts management 
 
Tax management 
 
Payroll management 
 
Financial analysis 
 
Internal & external Audit 
 
Financial reporting & 
reconciliations 
 
Business operations & 
compliance 
 
ERP Implementation 
 
People management 
 
Stakeholder 
management 
 
 
SKILLS 
Adept user of:  
 
Microsoft Office suite 
 
Offline & Cloud 
accounting software 
[Netsuite, Quickbooks, 
Microsoft Navision and 
Dynamics, etc.] 
 
LANGUAGES 
 
 
English (Fluent) 
 
Tagalog (Fluent) 
 
 
REFERENCES 
Can be furnished upon request 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE (continued) 
 
 
PUBLICIS MANILA, INC. (www.publicisgroupe.com)  
Part of the global Publicis Groupe, the world’s largest marketing communications group, as well as the world’s 
largest media counsel and buying group 
 
Financial Analyst 
May 2015 to May 2017 | Legazpi Village, Makati City 
 
My tasks included, but were not limited to: short-term revenue forecasting, monthly 
management report preparation and analysis, journal/ A/P vouchers preparation, balance 
sheet preparation and analysis as well as petty cash fund management 
 
HYDER CONSULTING MIDDLE EAST LTD 
recently acquired by ARCADIS (www.arcadis.com)  
Arcadis is a leading global Design & Consultancy firm for natural and built assets 
 
Accountant  
 
 
 
 
Oct 2014 to Apr 2015 | Ayala Ave., Makati City 
 
My tasks included, but were not limited to: bank and intercompany reconciliation, balance sheet 
account schedules preparation, journal vouchers preparation, financial analysis of accounts as 
well as lapsing schedules preparation 
 
 
BISTRO AMERICANO CORPORATION (www.bistro.com.ph)  
The Bistro Group is a collection of international casual dining brands and homegrown concepts. 
 
Accountant 
May 2012 to Aug 2014 | North Drive, Makati City 
 
Accountable for handling the books and entire accounting set up of several companies under the 
Bistro Group such as TGI Fridays and Italianni’s. During my tenure, I’ve set up the accounting 
books and systems of some newly-opened stores from scratch, following the Group policies. I’ve 
also managed the successful migration & parallel tests of the company’s old and new accounting 
systems in select companies under the Bistro Group. In my role, I communicated with the 
restaurant’s Operations team the financial performance of the company and provided sound 
financial advice. I also liaised with external auditors, as well as government BIR examiners during 
audit period. 
 
My tasks for each company included, but were not limited to: monthly management report 
preparation and analysis, reconciliation reports, journal vouchers preparation, preparation, filing 
and remittance of taxes (income tax, VAT, CWT & EWT), company compliance to all government 
bodies i.e. BIR registration, permit applications and renewals as well as petty cash fund 
management 
 
 
TRANS-GLOBAL MARITIME AGENCY, INC. (http://tgm.trans-global.com.ph/)    
Trans-Global Maritime Agency provides seafarer crew and staffing services 
 
Accountant 
Jul 2011 to Jan 2012 | Legazpi Village, Makati City 
 
 
DIAZ, MURILLO, DALUPAN & COMPANY (https://www.dmdcpa.com.ph/) 
One of the largest accounting firms, a service provider of basic to complex industry-specific services, which 
include auditing, tax, accounting, outsourcing, and management consultancy service 
 
Associate Auditor 
Nov 2010 to May 2011 | Legazpi Village, Makati City