MORIS P. BAUTISTA, CPA 
 
 
 
 
CONTACT 
 0927-486-5250 
 morisbautista@rocketmail.com 
 B2 L7 Holy Land St. Sitio Hinapao, 
Brgy. San Jose, Antipolo City 
 
 
PERSONAL SKILLS 
• 
Accounting Proficient 
• 
Experienced user of: 
o Microsoft Dynamics AX/D365 
o SAP S4 Hana 
• 
Microsoft Office Proficient 
• 
Hardworking 
• 
Quick Learner 
• 
Self-Motivated 
 
PERSONAL REFERENCE 
Donnabelle Wong-Chua 
Designation: Business Unit Controller 
Company: D&L Industries, Inc. 
Email: dlwong@dnl.com.ph 
 
 
 
JOHN RICHARD CARINGAL 
Designation: Business Solutions Manager 
Company: Lamoiyan Corporation 
Email: johnrichard.c.caringal@lamoiyan.com 
PROFILE 
 
Accomplished Accountant with two decades of experience in financial 
reporting, audit and budget management to improve organizational profitability 
and an expert in streamlining accounting processes and ensuring regulatory 
compliance. 
 
 
WORK EXPERIENCE 
 
o Nissin-Universal Robina Corporation 
COMMERCIAL AND FINANCE MANAGER 
(February 2023 – Feb 2026) 
 
Provides decision support to Management through financial 
analysis and simulations. Analyzes Risks and Opportunities and 
formulate corrective actions. Assists in the review of the financial 
viability of new major capital investments and marketing spend. 
Assists in the analysis of monthly financial reports including top to 
bottom deviation analysis. Facilitates Strategic Planning process 
for the group. Help prepare Annual Budget and aligns the same 
with business objectives and corporate guidelines. Monitors 
budget and reviews performance measures. Identifies and 
highlights process and business risks and work with different 
stakeholders in order to manage potential impact to the business. 
Participates in Management Committee meetings 
 
 
o Megawide Construction Corporation 
OPERATIONS COMPTROLLER  
(August 2022 – January 2023) 
 
Work in partnership with the Operations Group Head to ensure 
smooth and effective business operations. Oversee, evaluate, and 
recommend improvements to existing financial policies and 
procedures and ensure that the enterprise directions are carried 
out to operational level. Participate from the initiation (business 
exploration & bidding) of projects until its completion (project 
close-out) to make sure that financial aspect is properly managed 
 
 
 

EDUCATION 
 
TERTIARY 
Polytechnic University of the Philippines 
BS ACCOUNTANCY 
S.Y. 2002 – 2006 
 
SECONDARY 
Reina Mercedes Vocational & Industrial 
School 
S.Y. 1998-2002 
 
PRIMARY 
Tallungan Elementary School 
S.Y. 1992-1998 
 
o 
D&L Industries Inc. 
BUSINESS UNIT CONTROLLER  
(2017 – July 2022) 
 
Manages the whole accounting operations and reports every 
month to the management committee of each business units’ 
financial performance. Prepare Annual Budget and analyze 
variance from actual. FS simulation for different sales scenarios. 
Review standard costing. Review of Gross Profit Analysis. 
 
INTERNAL AUDIT SUPERVISOR  
(2015-2017) 
 
Review working papers and audit report of Internal Auditors. 
Assist in the preparation of quarterly report to audit committee. 
Assist in the annual audit planning. 
INTERNAL AUDITOR  
(2013-2015) 
 
Initiate and complete audit planning procedures. Prepare 
presentation materials and present during audit kick-off meeting 
with auditees. Perform audit interview, walkthrough, 
observation, vouch and trace documents. Prepare complete audit 
working paper. Analyze audit data and assess effectiveness of 
internal control. Form audit findings and give appropriate 
recommendation. Present result of the audit to the auditees 
during closing meeting. 
o Radius Telecoms, Inc 
PROPERTY ACCONTANT  
(2010-2013) 
Responsible in making sure that the PPE of the company is being 
monitored and recorded correctly. Prepare tags for each equipment 
purchased by the company. Monitor location of each equipment. Make 
sure that depreciation is being recognized on the right month. Perform 
inventory count and reconciliation. 
 
o Norkis Group of Companies 
JUNIOR AUDITOR  
(2008-2010) 
 
Perform branch audit and report to audit supervisor and manager for any 
observation. Goes to each customer to confirm existence and reconcile 
statement of accounts. Assist in the preparation of document requirements 
for any legal actions.