NIMFA MANGALINDAN-
PERDIGUERRA                    
#123 ML Quezon New Lower Bicutan Taguig City 
+63 915 513 1492 
nlmangalindan@gmail.com 
 
 
 
 
 
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY 
Qualified as Head of Finance and Planning with strong background in accounting operations and financial 
planning. Proven ability to streamline processes and improve productivity through effective leadership. 
Demonstrated proficiency in team coordination and problem-solving in fast-paced environment.  
 
 
CORPORATE WORKING EXPERIENCE  
 
Mar 1, 2022   
Digital Edge Philippines, Inc.  
 
 
 
 
to present  
 
10F One/NEO 26th Street cor. 3rd Avenue, 
 
 
 
Bonifacio Global City, 1634 Taguig City 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finance & Admin Manager 
 
 
 
 
In charge as point of contact for all employees’ concern, office management, 
manages contracts & price negotiations up until settlements. 
• Achieved lead time of office fit-out 
• Provided office equipment for all new employees before on boarding 
• Managed office requirements of Singapore team despite distance 
 
 
 
 
In charge to validate completeness and correctness of all documents / reports for 
approval and signature of the President & CEO 
Manages President & CEO’s calendar and scheduling business travel, etc. 
• Policed incorrect information  
• Avoided conflict on schedule 
 
 
 
 
Evaluates all requests for payments, assists in financial report preparation, annual 
budgeting and manages billing and collection 
• Policed double payments to vendors. 
• Achieved zero penalties and settlements were made on time. 
• Achieved 90% 60-90 credit terms. 
• Established internal process flow on check preparation up to releasing. 

 
 
 
 
2 
• On time issuance of Billing and achieved significant improvement in 
collections, from an overage of P30M outstanding receivable (covering Q3 
2024 to April 2025) to current receivable. 
 
April 2023   
 
City Government of Butuan  
 
 
 
 
to present  
 
Jose Rosales Avenue, Butuan City 
 
 
 
8600 Agusan Del Norte 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finance Consultant – Office of the City Mayor 
 
 
 
(Online set-up twice a month & travel once a month) 
Observes and recommends strategies on process flows, improvement on financial 
reporting & annual budgeting and participates in team meetings and other 
professional development activities.  
•  Established monthly review of financial reports including supporting 
schedules and quarterly discussion of write up with analytics. This includes 
proper recording of transactions resulting to correct decision making of the 
internal users leading to positive bottom line. 
• Streamlined daily process flow that has significant improvement in payroll 
credit, check releasing and reduced over manpower resulting to ideal number 
of manpower. 
• Earlier submission of annual financial report to COA 
• System improvements thru approval matrix of which avoided theft. 
• Recommended organizational chart and job functions. 
 
 
Sept. 2010  
 
St. Luke’s Medical Center, Inc.  
 
 
 
  
to Feb 2022 
 
Global City / Quezon City 
 
 
 
32nd Street, Fort Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City / 
 
 
 
 
 
279 E Rodriguez Sr. Ave., Quezon City 
 
 
July 2019   
 
Department Manager – Corporate Accounting Dept. (FINANCE DIVISION) 
 
to Feb 2022 
 
(PROMOTED SHARED Employee of GC & QC Branch) 
 
In charge in accounting operations & reporting and annual budgeting of hospital-
wide Global City and Quezon City branch. 
• Revived zero audit findings and early submission of reliable financial report to 
top management in GC branch and applied the same strategy in QC branch 
• Improved process flow on CAPEX requests and monitoring in QC branch. 
• Educated Division Heads of QC branch on their financial performance for cost 
control and higher revenues. 
 
May 1, 2015  
Section Manager – Financial Planning (FINANCE DIVISION) 
to June 30, 2019 
Overall in charge in hospital-wide annual budgeting for both OPEX and CAPEX 
• Achieved earlier submission of proposed budget for BOD’s approval from 
December to October lead time. 

 
 
 
 
3 
• Controlled expenses thru monitoring of OPEX and CAPEX requests before 
proceedings to Procurement. 
• Established quarterly discussion of unit’s financial performance to control 
expenses and improve revenues 
 
September 2010 
Section Manager – General Accounting (FINANCE DIVISION) 
 
 
 
to April 2015 
 In-charge in financial recording and reporting, billing and collection on other source 
of income of the hospital and leads annual audit. 
• Established reliable standard financial report from zero reports. 
• Improved closing of book, from 15 workings days to 8 working days. 
• Achieved zero audit findings 
• Improvement in manpower turnover 
 
March 2009  
Bonifacio Gas Corporation  
 
 
 
 
to Sept 2010  
Fort Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Accounting Supervisor (FINANCE DIVISION) 
• Oversees accounting operations 
• Leads the preparation of Financial Statements 
• Renders Management Advisory Services 
o Cost Analysis 
  
o P & L Analysis 
o Cash flow Projections, budgets, etc. 
 
 
 
 
May 2004   
 
Net Group Real Estate Management Corp.  
 
 
to March 2009 
Fort Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City 
 
 
Accounting and Operations Supervisor (FINANCE DIVISION) 
 
 
 
In charge in the overall accounting operations:  
 
• Leads the preparation of Financial Report. 
• In-charge in external annual audit. 
• Manages billing and collection. 
• Payroll processing. 
• Government processing and compliance. 
 
May 2002   
 
FPDAsia Property Services, Inc.  
 
 
 
 
to May 2004  
(formerly FPDSavills Philippines, Inc.) 
Fort Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City 
May 2002 – May 2004 
 
Accounting Assistant (FINANCE DIVISION) 
• Renders Management Advisory Services: 
o Cost Analysis 
o Capital Budgeting 

 
 
 
 
4 
o Financial Statement Analysis 
• Prepares the following financial report: 
o Annual Operating Expense Budget 
o Weekly cash position report 
o Monthly Financial Statement, including schedules 
o Various tax returns 
o Maintains financial books; 
o Manages accounts payable and receivable; 
o Does clerical works, such as preparation of invoices, checks, vouchers, 
etc. 
o Petty cash custodian. 
 
June 2001 
 
MAAM’S SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to May 2002  
 
Tandang Sora, Quezon City 
 
 
 
 
Accounting Assistant (FINANCE DIVISION) 
• Prepares weekly cash position report; 
• Prepares financial statement; 
• Maintains financial books; 
• Prepares clients billings, vouchers, checks and others; 
• Petty cash custodian 
 
January 2001 
 
WATER WORLD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to June 2001 
 
Sto. Tomas, Sasmuan Pampanga 
January 2001 – June 2001 
 
Accounting Assistant (FINANCE DIVISION) 
• Assists Accountant in preparation of financial report; 
• Prepares cash position report; 
• Maintains financial books; 
• Petty cash custodian 
 
 
ACHIEVEMENTS AND TRAININGS   
 
Achievements 
o 2019 Associate of the Year (AOY) for Finance Group – Grand Champion 
o 2018 Associate of the Year (AOY) for Finance Group – Finalist 
o 2016 Associate of the Year (AOY) for Finance Group – Finalist 
o Consistent Top 1 in Elementary, Top 3 in High School and Dean’s Lister & 
Government Scholar in College 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
5 
 
Trainings 
o Accounting for Management Decision-Making – Ateneo De Manila University 
o Financial Statement Analysis – UP Diliman 
o Oddo/Rydoo - internal 
o SAP/BPC/NOAH Accounting & Budget Systems – external 
o Technical Writing Skills – Ateneo De Manila University 
o Basic Presentation Skills – In house 
o English Proficiency Program – In house 
o Driving Excellence & Problem Solving Workshop – In house 
o Public Speaking - external 
o Budget Planning Workshop - external 
o Odoo/Rydoo – In house 
o Taxation of PEZA Registered Entities - external 
o Various BIR Seminars – external 
 
 
EDUCATION 
 
 
 
Certified Management Accountant (CMA) 
 
CMA Australia 
 
January 14 to April 1, 2017 
 
Sponsored by company, St. Luke’s Medical Center Global City 
 
 
Master of Business Administration (MBA) 
 
Trinity University of Asia 
 
(August 2014 to June 2017) 
 
 
 
Basic Management Program 
 
 
Asian Institute of Management 
 
(November 2015 – March 2016) 
 
Sponsored by company, St. Luke’s Medical Center Global City 
 
 
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy  
 
Guagua National Colleges 
 
(1996 – 2000) 
 
Achievements 
o Consistent Dean’s Lister  
o Government Scholar from Study Now Later Plan 
o CPA Review at CPAR sponsored by Alma Mater 
 
PERSONAL INFORMATION  
 
 
° Number of children: 2 
 
° Date of birth: 1977-12-06  
 
° Nationality: Filipino 
 
 
° Marital status: married 
 

 
 
 
 
6 
REFERENCES 
 
 
 
Mr. Carlos S. Rufino 
 
Owner/Stockholder  
 
Threadborne – NetGroup of Companies  
 
[Office number: +63 2 88180587] 
 
 
Mr. Jonathan Walbridge 
 
CFO Regional – Singapore based 
 
Digital Edge DC 
 
[Mobile number: +65 9890 2194] 
 
 
Mr. Harry Ho 
 
Billing & Collection – Hongkong based 
 
Digital Edge DC – APAC 
 
[Contact: harry.ho@digitaledgedc.com] 
 
 
Mr. Allan P. Quijano 
 
Senior Vice President – Chief Finance Officer and Chief Admin Officer  
 
UERM Medical Center, Inc 
 
[Mobile number: +63 917 857 5642] 
 
 
Mr. Rafael C. Solis 
 
EVP for Hospital Operations 
 
St. Luke’s Medical Center – Global City / Quezon City 
 
[Office number: +63 2 87897700] 
 
 
Engr. Ronnie Vicente C. Lagnada 
 
City Mayor – Butuan City 
 
[Mobile number: +63 917 183 1123]