Nonie Tiama Febrer 
Administrative cum Finance Manager 
Contact 
Details: 
+220-3340002 
WhatsApp: 
+2205842049 
Email: 
nonietiamafebrer@gmail.om 
 
I am looking for new opportunities that let myself for a career change from finance to 
administrative management where I can collaborate my knowledge and experiences in F& 
A. 
 
Summary of qualifications: 
◆ More than 25 years of professional experience in finance and accounting functions. 
◆ Skills in administrative and general office management. 
◆ With experience in multi-cultural environment. 
◆ Can work under pressure, versatile, and multi-tasking challenges. 
◆ With commitment and generous heart but with boundaries. 
Areas of expertise: 
◆ General accounting 
◆ Financial and budget management 
◆ Financial analysis 
◆ Cost management 
◆ AR and AP management 
◆ Inventory management 
◆ Asset management 
◆ Auditing and Taxation 
◆ Cash management 
IT Knowledge and experience 
◆ QuickBooks desktop and online 
◆ Tally Accounting 
◆ MYOB 
◆ SAP 
◆ Microsoft office 
Education 
◆ Undergraduate of MBA in University of the People 
◆ ACCA Level 2 
◆ Bachelor of Science in Accountancy at Polytechnic University of Phils.  
Work Experiences: 
Finance Manager 
OBT Shipping Group-The Gambia (Shipping and Logistics) 
 
July 2023 to presents 
Oversea and manage the finance and accounting activities of the department. 
Manage and train the staff in the department. Ensure the goals and targets of 
the department are met. Review system journal  
entries, schedules, 
general ledgers, and trial balance for  
accuracy and  finalization 
of 
Financial Statements while ensuring IFRS/IAS compliance.  
Verify 
and 
control revenue, cost, and  
gross profits. Review and rectify previous 
years entries. Analyze and finalize monthly and annual Financial  Statement 
for Management Reporting. Verify the accuracy and submission  of quarterly 
VAT return and preparation of Corporate Taxation. Review  
and control 
of Accounts receivable, Accounts Payable, Working capital and other account 
reconciliation. Liaise with external auditors for annual audit and compliance.  
Develop and implement  
standard 
business 
procedures 
and 
accounting policies to  enhance internal control. Observe and participate in 

decision making and implementation when required to ensure effective and 
efficient business operation. Other duties that may be assigned by Senior and 
 
Executive Management. 
 
 
 
 
Administration and Finance Manager 
 
Rose of Sharon Enterprises- Kampala, Uganda (Manufacturing) 
 
August 2022 to June 2023 
Manage the Administration and Finance Department, including HR, Storage, 
and Accounting. Prepares Financial Statements, Production  
Cost 
Analysis, and schedules. Approve the release of payments.  
Monitor 
and checking of the monthly tax filing, payroll, personnel summary, and daily 
cash report. Assure the implementation of  
Accounting 
and 
Finance 
policies and procedures. Time to time monitoring and checking of inventory, 
sales, and collection. Budget planning and monitoring of bank  transactions 
and preparing bank reconciliations. Asset management and monitoring. 
Coordinate with auditors, legal consultants, and other regulating agencies 
such as  UNBS, URA, etc. Report directly to the CEO for any required report 
and documentation. Assist the Production Manager with any  
operational 
requirements such as manpower, delivery of raw materials, supplies, and 
finished goods. Other duties that might  require immediate attention. 
 
 
 
Chief Financial Officer 
 
Century Park Hotel and Residences- Kigali, Rwanda (Hotel and Real Estate) 
 
December 2020 to May 2022 
 
 
Act as financial comptroller. Secure the implementation of finance  
 
 
and accounting policy & procedures 
Ensure that expenses are parallel to the approved budget. Review 
 
and Presentation of Management Report to the board of directors, 
 
COO and CEO. Ensure that all entries and transactions are properly 
 
accounted for and posted in Quick Books. Check and approved  payments. 
 
Check and verify Bank Statements and Daily Cash Disbursement. 
 
Coordinate with banks, government agencies, and consultants as 
 
necessary requires by the company. Manage and supervise finance and 
 
accounting 
departments. 
Coordinate 
and 
work 
with 
executive 
 
management on new rules, policies, and procedures for implementation. 
 
Prepare report needed by COO and CEO. 
 
Senior Accountant 
 
Perferto Management Company Limited- Kampala, Uganda ( Real Estate) 
 
September 2020 to December 2020 
 
 
Serve as Finance Officer of the company. Manage the function of the  
 
 
Accounting and Finance Department. Check and approve payment  
 
 
processing and releasing. Check and verify the accountant posting in  
 
 
Quick Books. Coordinate with URA and other regulating agencies for  
 
 
compliance. Check and verify the Financial Statements. Directly report  
 
 
to executive management all important issues with regards to finances.  
 
 
Revised the implementation of accounting and finance policy and  
 
 
procedures 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Senior Accountant 
 
Aurum Roses Ltd- Kampala, Uganda (Trading and Agriculture Farm) 
 
November 2019 to March 2020 
 
 
Check and verify Monthly P&L , monthly closing and cost accounting  
 
 
report. Compile and analyze financial information to prepare entries to  
 
 
accounts, such as the general ledger. Establish, maintain, and coordinate the 
 
 
implementation of accounting policy and procedures. Cross-check all entries 
 
 
in the Tally accounting system. Monitor and review the accounting system-
 
 
related reports for accuracy and completeness. Check and review budget, 
 
 
revenue, payroll, expenses, and invoices for payments. Analyze revenue and 
 
 
expenditure trends and recommend appropriate budget levels and ensure 
 
 
expenditures  control. Resolves accounting discrepancies and issues.  
 
 
Recommend, develop, and maintain financial databases, computer software 
 
 
systems and manual filing. Supervise the input and handling of financial data 
 
 
and reports for the company's automated financial systems. Interact with 
 
 
internal and external auditors in completing audits. Other duties assigned by 
 
 
Director and Financial Controller. 
 
 
 
Owner/Operator (Part time) 
 
Makilakbay Travel and Tours-Mandaluyong, Philippines ( Travel and Tourism) 
 
September 2014 to October 2019 
 
 
Overall in charge of Operations which includes Sales and Marketing.  
 
 
Entertain online and email inquiries. Manage social media sites.   
 
 
Coordinate with guests, hotel, and tour operator for booking status.  
 
 
Monitoring of guest schedule and activities during the tour. Design  
 
 
and prepare ad banners and package tours. 
 
Accountant 
 
Rodman Marketing & Agricultural Products- Manila, Philippines ( Import Trading) 
 
February 2015 to August 2019 
 
 
Serve as finance and accounting supervisor. Established and  
 
 
 
implemented manual accounting system of the company Prepares  
 
 
financial statements, cost analysis, payroll, and other reports needed  
 
 
by the management. Audit of daily cash transactions, expenses, sales,  
 
 
and collection. 
 
Accountant 
 
Samsung Engineering & Construction Ltd- Bahrain/KSA (Construction) 
 
April 2011 to February 2015 
 
 
Serve as project accountant of Muharraq STP project in  Bahrain 
 
 
served as cash management custodian of the head office in  
 
 
Jubail,KSA served as an accountant of EPC office in Al Khobar, KSA. 
 
 
Process and releases vendors' payment. Handled SAP budget  
 
 
management and process re-appropriation for approval Prepared 
 
 
month-end closing reports such as expense reports, open items, 
 
 
cash flow statements, and bank reconciliation. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Accountant 
 
3H Enterprises Limited-  Pasig City, Philippines ( Manufacturing) 
 
June 2004 to June 2010 
 
 
Serve as an accounting supervisor. Established and implemented a manual 
 
 
accounting system for the company Prepares financial  statements, 
cost 
 
 
analysis, payroll, and other reports needed by the management. Audit of 
 
 
disbursement accounts receivable and accounts payable Mediator of head 
 
 
office and factory worker Handles overdue accounts for legal remedies. 
 
Accounting Staff 
 
Corporate Link Management Network- Makati City, Philippines (Manpower) 
 
March 2002 to May 2004 
 
 
Assure of on-time distribution of collection copy for the sale representative 
 
 
for the early possible collection of the account.  Entertain 
booked 
orders
 
 
from customer and sales representative for  
early possible confirmation 
 
 
of available stocks. Assist Credit Analyst with the ageing of the customer 
 
 
account. Prepares monitoring of incoming and outcome booked orders  
 
 
and coordinates with sales representatives and a customer regarding the 
 
 
status of the account and booked orders. 
 
 
Accounting Staff/ Roving Accountant 
 
Euro Pacific Resorts Inc- Taguig City, Philippines ( Tourism) 
 
January 2000 to February 2002 
 
 
Serve as reliever of Resort Accountant, Resort Auditor, Local Purchaser, 
 
 
and Travel Agency Supervisor. Prepares and handles local payroll, 
 
 
operating funds, and collections. Act as a mediator of the Home Office 
 
 
regarding accounting matters and measures. Supervise airline ticket 
 
 
reservations. Check variances, petty cash fund, billing summary,  
 
 
advances for liquidation, and sales. Prepare report regarding  
 
 
concessionaires, cash requirements, and cash position. Close  
 
 
monitoring of all accounting firms, property accountability, and  
 
 
inventory. Recommend internal control policy procedure for discussion 
 
 
before implementation. Prepares Income Statement of Local Travel 
 
 
Agency for evaluation and control. Coordinate with a supplier and home 
 
 
office regarding shipments of goods and materials. Handle and  
 
 
distribute service charges and tips. Prepares and checks sales invoices 
 
 
for the journal entry. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Who am I? 
I am Nonie Tiama Febrer, sixth of a seven children of Igmedio Febrer and Carmelita 
Tiama, a farmer and a housewife who cooked a kakanin and sell it to the village 
to support our living. I was born in a simple village of San Lorenzo, town of Santa 
Elena, province of Camarines Norte, Bicol Region in Luzon, Philippines. I spent my 
childhood in this small village and attended my primary school at M. Hebrado 
Elementary School. My parents want me to have a much better quality of 
education, so they sent me to Gumaca, Quezon to finish my secondary school at 
Gumaca National High School. At 16, I started working as a helper in a grocery 
store in Bocaue, Bulacan, at 17 I worked as a factory worker in a garment factory 
in Mariveles, Bataan to support my university education. At 24 I finished my 
bachelor’s degree through my perseverance and got my first professional job. And 
the rest is history; from ordinary accounting staff I become Finance Manager and 
CFO of different local and international companies.  
 
My achievements 
I can say that from simple farmer son to a career professional individual is my basic 
achievement in life, I shared my blessing to my friends, immediate family and help 
others even in a little way. 
The Acts Kids is my greatest achievement in life, from 2012 until now, The Acts kids 
helped a lot of children from different villages. I inspired some of them to focus and 
study well, not just those kids but also other people like me to do the same in the 
community.  
The Acts Kids is a self-relying foundation that supports the beginners to have their 
school supplies, we do it every opening of school year. We are also trying to give some 
of recipients who are already in the middle grade so they will inspire them to study 
well. 
I am very hopeful that this foundation may take long but if not, at least I inspired 
people to do the same by having a helping hand and to share the blessing with those 
fortunate and unfortunate children. 
I always say and believe that “I learn to give not because I have much, but because I 
know exactly how it feels to have nothing.” 
 
What can I offer? 
I can offer myself, my dedication, perseverance and commitment to help the company 
achieve their mission and vision. I am always willing to learn something new most 
specially now a days where in technology advancement is very useful. I am looking for 
a new challenge that will give me new opportunities to spread my head in other areas 
of expertise coz I feel that my experiences are redundant already.  I believe that right 
company or people will give me this opportunity at the right time.