Paz resume                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 1 of 4 
 
Ma. Paz Adarayan, MBA & CFC 
+63 991 978 9705 
paz.adarayan@gmail.com 
 
Finance Executive with multi-industry experience managing all facets of Finance, Accounting & Control. Skilled in 
Deal Pricing, Strategic Financial Planning and Forecasting as well as proven success in implementing Financial 
Systems & Enhancements and efficient execution of Process Improvement initiatives.
 DEMONSTRATED ACHIEVEMENTS  
 Enhanced Financial Forecasting & Project 
Financial simulations through the formulation 
of templates. 
 Improved Invoicing Process and Cash Advances 
request & liquidation. 
 Financial Legacy reconciliation & clean-up as 
well as transition to sound reporting standards 
& processes. 
 Championed Tax Planning strategies for Retail, 
Advertising, Holdings & Aviation Allied Services 
company resulting in maximized tax 
deductibles, thus, reducing tax payables & LOA 
assessments. 98% saved from Php 14.77M 
assessment. 
 Effectively transitioned the manual payroll 
disbursement of almost 900 employees to 
online in a span of 2-weeks to cater the urgent 
need in March 2020. 
 Improved Vendor relations thru efficient 
Accounts Payable management while ensuring 
a reasonable Cash Position. 
 Enhanced forecasting technique & accuracy 
for IBM Global Delivery Center resulting to a 
95% forecast achievement. 
 Efficiently guided & documented the 
processes as well as crafting the Vision, 
Mission & Core Values of a Real Estate 
company in relation to its ISO 9001:2015 
certification. 
 Successfully implemented SAP Project 
Financials & Activity-based costing modules for 
HP Philippines.  
 Leveled up the Schools’ Administrators & Staff   
confidence & cooperation in the Internal Audit 
engagements resulting in Operational 
Efficiency & Stringent Compliance to Controls 
in place. 
 KEY SKILLS 
 
 Financial Controls, Reporting, Analysis, 
Strategic Planning, Forecasting & Budgeting 
 Deal Pricing 
 Tax Planning & Management 
 Cash/Funds Management strategies 
 Proficient in Business Process Improvement & 
Documentation 
 Accounts Payable & Receivable Management 
 Adept in Financial Systems Assessment, 
Enhancement & Implementation 
 Labor-rate setting/calculation for IT Services 
Company 
 Negotiation 
 Business Risk mitigation 
 
 CERTIFICATION/TRAINING PROGRAMS 
✍ Certified Business Economist (CBE) - ongoing 
✍ Certified Financial Consultant (CFC) 
✍ Institute of Certified Management 
Accountant (CMA) 
✍ Institute of Certified Management Consultant 
(CMC) 
✍ Training - Lean Six Sigma Black Belt (LSSBB) 
✍ Training - Six Sigma Greenbelt 
 
 EDUCATION 
University of the Philippines – Diliman, 
Quezon City 
MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION, 
2004 
 
University of the Philippines - Tacloban 
College, Tacloban City 
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ACCOUNTANCY, 1996 

 
Paz resume                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 2 of 4 
 RELEVANT PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE  
ASEA AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (group of companies) 
January 2023 to Present 
Director, Finance Planning & Sustainability
● Long-term Strategic Financial Plan & Forecast. 
● Investors correspondences, deal structure. 
● Financial Dashboard. 
● Deal Pricing. 
● Improved Financial Reporting processes – per 
business unit reporting, QB implementation.  
● Oversees the Finance-related functions of the 
FBO Aircraft Ground Handling Services 
company. 
● Successfully managed the BIR LOA said 
company. 
● Uncovered Cash Advances issues & concerns. 
● Improved Cash Advance Request & 
Liquidation process with stringent controls in 
place. 
● Guided the Team on Accounts reconciliation 
process. 
● Improved Invoicing Process.
ELEV8 HOLDINGS, INC. (group of companies)  
 
 
December 2021 to April 2022 
Senior VP - Finance
● Implemented Tax Planning strategies thereby 
reducing tax payables. 
● Enhanced Financial Management & Statutory 
recording, reporting and compliance. 
● Handled BIR LOAs. 
● Instituted an initial 3-month rolling Cash 
Flows forecast for a reasonable Funds 
planning.  
● Guided the Team on Accounts Receivable 
reconciliation. Resolved major issues in 
less than 2 months. 
ISETANN DEPARTMENT STORE, INC. (group of companies) 
 
June 2019 to December 2021 
Finance Director
● Improved Funds Placement Strategy. 
● Instituted a different Budgeting strategy 
based on plans not solely on past 
performance. 
● Implemented Financial System Development 
status monitoring.  
● Trained staff on Process Documentation.  
● Enhanced Financial Management & Statutory 
Reporting.  
● Efficiently managed External & BIR audits.  
● Lead IT team on ERP system upgrade.  
● Enabled online payroll disbursement in 2-
weeks’ time given the needs during the 
start of pandemic in March 2020.  
● Implemented an online leave tracker for 
the entire Finance team (104 pax).
INNERWORKS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
 
 
 
March to June 2019 
Head of Finance
● Improved the scenario-based Financial 
Model for presentation to prospective 
Investors (e-Commerce company). 
● Created & Implemented a Cash Position and 
Cash Flows forecast template & report. 
● Successfully guided the team in 
the Accounts Payable & Receivable 
reconciliation. 
● Helped the COO in completing the SEC 
registration requirements for new 
company.
 

 
Paz resume                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 3 of 4 
 
EAGLECOR, INC. (Project-based) 
 
 
 
 
June 2018 to February 2019 
Finance Manager
● Created Budget Template & Guidelines.  
● Prepared guide to understanding Financial 
Statements for non-accountants. 
● Developed & deployed an MS Excel Payroll 
template.  
● Created & rolled-out the use of Online Leave 
tracker thru Google Forms.  
● Prepared a Financial System testing plan 
for in-house developed Financial 
System.  
● Provided guidance & lead the team in 
the documentation of processes and 
crafting of Vision, Mission, Core Values, 
Policy Statement related to the ISO 
9001:2015 certification process 
requirements.  
 
GLOBE TELECOM, INC.  
 
 
 
 
 
April 2012 to August 2016 
IT Finance Manager  
● Improved Prodman’s Accounts Payable aging 
to <60 days from >120 days ($1M+ to 
$100K+) in a span of 2 months while ensuring 
a reasonable cash position.  
● Proposed cost minimization options related 
to Managed Services contracts & presented 
to C-level.  
● Partnered with Legal team in the review and 
revision of Transformation Contracts. 
 
  
● Responsible in ensuring that Financials 
(actual & forecast) related to 
Transformation engagements are 
aligned to original Business Case. Any 
inevitable deviations have to be 
reported/presented with corresponding 
actionable steps. 
● Accountable in the Business Continuity 
& Process Improvement 
documentations related to the 
Transformation projects assigned. 
 
IBM SOLUTIONS DELIVERY, INC.  
 
 
 
 
May 2009 to March 2012 
Strategic Finance Planner (Aug 2011 to Mar 2012) 
Finance Controller (May 2009 to Jul 2011. Back-up Support to Controller until Mar 2012) 
● Improved forecasting technique & accuracy 
(95% achievement) of Global Delivery Center.  
● Successfully rolled-out the non-labor Billing 
System in the Philippines.  
● Contracts review for Global Business Services 
projects.  
 
● Positively coordinated with all teams 
involved in the New Site selection 
endeavors of the Phils Delivery Centers.  
● Responsible in the Process Improvement 
Evaluation & Documentation (Lean Six 
Sigma overview) activities for Global 
Delivery Center Finance processes. 
 

 
Paz resume                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 4 of 4 
HEWLETT-PACKARD PHILIPPINES 
 
 
 
 
April 2005 to April 2009 
Business Planning Manager (November 2007 to April 2009) 
Finance Lead - HP Services (April 2005 – October 2007)
● Successful implementation of SAP Project 
Financials Module & Activity-Based Costing 
being the Country SAP Implementation Lead.  
● Effectively lead the team of Financial Analysts 
in Labor-rate setting for HP services 
(Technology Services [TS] and Consulting & 
Integration [C&I]).  
● Pricing bid reviews for IT Services 
product offering under TS and C&I.  
 
● Timely reporting of monthly actual & 
rolling achievable financial forecast.  
● Effective execution of Process 
Improvement Evaluation & 
Documentation (Greenbelt trained
 
CITISTORES, INC. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
September 2004 to April 2005 
Accounting Manager
● Created Crystal Report for ACCPAC. 
● Finance & Accounting Operational 
activities. 
GREENFIELD DEVELOPMENT CORP   
 
 
 
November 2001 to June 2004 
Budget Officer
● Designed & coded the MS Access based 
Budget Data Entry Program.  
● Created the Budget manual and rolled-out 
the budgeting process using the MS Access 
based Budget System.  
● Monthly presentation of financial results of 
operations to Board of Directors. 
 
● Established regular monthly release of 
Financial Statement with comparative 
figures for Actual, Budget & Forecast to 
C-level, Division and Departmental 
Heads. 
STI, INC.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
January 1998 to Nov 2001 
School Financial Auditor
● Successfully finished the User Acceptance 
Testing & generation of Course Fee 
Templates from an in-house system 
developed by STIsys. 
● Active involvement in the shift of Internal 
Audit image to School Administrators being   
partners in the improvement of internal 
controls in place, thus, no adverse reply 
from School Administrators.  
● Managed the financial concerns of a STI 
school under financial takeover by STI 
Central.
 
DIAMOND MOTOR CORP. 
 
 
 
 
December 1996 to December 1997 
Audit Clerk
● Suggested improvements in the Spare Parts 
Inventory reconciliation and reporting, 
resulting in a lower paper inventory loss 
reported.  
● Improved Bank Reconciliation process 
thereby, able to report accurate adjusted 
bank balance.