RAFANZEL SANOY, CPA, CSSYB
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
Senior Finance and Accounting Professional with 11+ years of experience in financial analysis,
reporting, and strategic process improvements. Proven expertise in general and revenue
accounting, financial statement management, budgeting, and compliance. Strong track record of
streamlining financial processes, enhancing reporting accuracy, and optimizing operational
efficiency. Adept at leading and mentoring teams, driving cross-functional collaboration, and
implementing system enhancements to improve financial performance. Committed to delivering
data-driven insights that support business growth and financial sustainability.
WORK EXPERIENCE
Driven cost-optimization initiatives to reduce operating expenses.
Streamlined department’s workflows; improving efficiency and quality of team’s outputs.
Standardized monthly close processes improving timeliness and accuracy.
Prepared board-level financial and operational analyses and reports.
Optimized QuickBooks Online for reporting and controls.
Designed and rolled out accounting templates, workpapers, checklists, and trackers.
Developed and conducted accounting training and upskilling programs to the department.
Partnered with senior management on cross-functional projects and expansion goals (franchises,
new stores, cost-optimization projects, inventory management, leveraging payment channels).
Lead cleanup and remediation of accounting records and accounting treatments.
Delivered weekly, monthly and quarterly financial status updates and reports.
Prepared rolling cash flow forecasts and profitability projections to support financial planning and
operational decision-making.
Managed treasury activities and monitored compliance with debt covenants to ensure adherence
to financing agreements.
Liaise with banks, suppliers, and external service providers to support financial operations and
resolve administrative matters.
Prepared and monitored departmental budgets, tracking actual performance against targets.
Finance Controller, Kingsman Group
Jul 2025 - March 2026
Financial Control Acting/Assistant Manager, CARE Shared Services 
Managed end-to-end financial control activities, monthly closing cycle and investment
accounting
Functioned as subject-matter expert for private revenue activities and systems.
Prepared monthly and quarterly financial reports, conducting trial balance reviews in partnership
with global finance leadership.
Ensured compliance and accuracy by supporting internal and external audit processes.
Resolved 100+ system issues, glitches and bugs within Salesforce through cross-department
collaboration.
Optimize financial workflows, enhancing system integration and reporting accuracy in Salesforce
and PeopleSoft.
Dec 2022 - Jun 2025
Pasig City • (+63) 908-943-7879 • sanoy.rafanzel@gmail.com
Global Finance Operations Team Lead, CARE Shared Services 
Managed financial operations for 8 country offices, ensuring compliance with global standards.
Led monthly balance sheet reviews in collaboration with finance leaders across country offices.
Managed grants and awards, overseeing setup, modifications, monitoring, and budgeting to
ensure compliance and accuracy.
Oct 2019 - Nov 2022

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Certifications:
Certified Public Accountant – 2014
Certified Lean Six Sigma Yellow Belt –
2022
Xero Pro Advisor Certified – 2025
Xero Payroll Certified – 2025
EDUCATION
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy
University of Caloocan City
 Jun 2010 - Apr 2014
Global Finance Accountant, CARE Shared Services 
Managed end-to-end accounting and financial administration for 5 country offices, covering
general ledger, asset management, accounts payable, cash management, revenue recognition,
billing, and receivables.
Executed monthly closing activities, including payroll reconciliation, expense allocations, and
financial reporting.
Ensured compliance with GAAP and internal policies by conducting balance sheet reviews,
reconciliations, and preparing correcting entries.
Enhanced financial processes by improving working papers and roll-forwards.
Provided audit support for external and local audits, ensuring accurate financial documentation.
Resolved tax-related system issues through collaboration with IT to improve PeopleSoft
integration.
Jul 2016 - Sept 2019
Finance Consultant, CARE Shared Services 
Led a bank reconciliation remediation project for assigned 100+ bank accounts, clearing 2,000+
outstanding open items to improve financial accuracy and clear audit risks.
Executed trial balance account cleanups, reducing prior year audit risks related to inter-unit
and, asset and liability clearing accounts
Standardized workflow for the USA team’s bank fee identification and recording
May 2015 - Jun 2016
Audit Associate, Reyes, Tacandong & Co.
Conducted audits for service and retail clients, ensuring compliance with accounting standards.
Reconciled accounts for receivables and fixed assets, verifying accuracy in financial records.
Performed inventory audits and assisted in year-end physical inventory counts for multiple
clients.
Nov 2014 - Apr 2015
Financial & Accounting Skills:
Financial Reporting & Analysis (GAAP,
IFRS) 
Audit & Compliance (Internal & External)
General Ledger & Account Reconciliation
Revenue Recognition & Collections
Management
Grants Management and Budgeting
Technical & Soft Skills:
Financial Systems & ERP (Oracle-
PeopleSoft, Salesforce, QuickBooks, Xero,
Power BI, MS 365)
Team Leadership & Mentorship
Process Optimization & Efficiency
Finance Business Partnering
Financial Modules:
General Ledger (GL)
Accounts Receivable (AR)
Bank Reconciliation
Accounts Payable (AP)
Fixed Assets
Revenue & Expense Management
Grants & Budgeting
Trained and mentored accountants, enhancing team capabilities and efficiency.
Standardized financial closing processes & roll-forwards, improving consistency across teams.
Prepared supporting documents for internal and external audits, ensuring compliance.
Participated in user-access testing for financial system enhancements and upgrades.