RICARDO V. PAGUIA II
400 Int. M.H. del Pilar St., Pinagbuhatan, Pasig City
09072697722/09274491165 paguiaricardoii@gmail.com        
Working Experience
MERALCO INDUSTRIAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICES CORP. (MIESCOR)
Position :  Finance Head  for Subsidiaries
Working Period: September 2020 - Present
Job Description:
Managing accounting and finance for Miescor Logistics Inc.
Formulate, implement and monitor Budget of the company.
Create and implement business strategy based on the budget and business development efforts.
Prepare financial and management reports for decision making.
Coordinate and report to the board all financial data.
Ensure healthy cash flow for the company.
Participate in bids review committee meetings to ensure proper costing and winnability of bids.
In charge of risk management for the company.
Review various contracts to mitigate risk exposure and ensure compliance.
Review religiously company policies and procedures.
Conduct audit of the operations and investigate cases for any non-compliance.
Check company payroll.
Check daily vouchers and payments.
Check bank reconciliation 
Monitors receivables and payables
Check BIR reports. Creates strategies to save on taxes.
Check monthly financial statements
Directly reporting to the President and CFO for the management reports.
Other day to day instruction given by the CFO.
Position :  Business Development Manager
Working Period: December 2025 - Present
Job Description:
Concurrently handling business development processes and efforts.
Formulate, implement and strategize business development for the company
Prepare feasibility study for new products to offer.
Coordinates with prospective clients and partners.
Assigned in the organization’s KPI formulating and checking.
Conduct training to the employees for new strategy and technical processes.
QUORUM GROUP INC.
Position :  Accounting Manager for Subsidiaries
Working Period: July 2017 – August 2020
Job Description:
Managing accounting for five (5) companies/affiliates of Quorum Group of Companies.
Formulate, implement and monitor Budget of the company.
Prepare financial and management reports for decision making.
Coordinate and report to the board all financial data.
Conduct audit of the operations, and investigate cases for any non-compliance.
Check company payroll.
Checking of Sales Orders and Sales reports
Set-up new accounting system.
Check daily vouchers and payments.
Check and approve Delivery Receipts
Check bank reconciliation 
Prepare journal entries for adjustments and accruals
Monitors receivables and payables
Check BIR reports
Check monthly financial statements
Do case study for prospect investment.
Directly reporting to the President for the management reports.
Coordinates with the banks for loan and bank services.
Other day to day instruction given by the President.
Manfel Piastrelle Corporation
Position : Comptroller 
Working Period: July 2015 – June 2017
Job Description:
Managing the Operations, HRAD, Finance and Accounting Departments.
Monitor Operations’ Manager and Operations’ daily activities.
Conduct audit of the operations, and investigate cases for any non-compliance.
Check company payroll.
Checking of Sales Orders.
Set-up new accounting system.
Check daily vouchers and payments.
Check and approve Delivery Receipts
Check bank reconciliation 
Prepare journal entries for adjustments and accruals
Monitors receivables and payables
Check BIR reports
Check monthly financial statements
Do case study for prospect investment.
Directly reporting to the President for the management reports.
Coordinates with the banks for loan and bank services.
Other day to day instruction given by the President.
Goldenstar Cargo Trade Shipping Corporation
Position : Accounting Manager 
Working Period: February 2014 – June 2015
Job Description:
Supervising Accounting Dept.
Set-up SAP Accounting system
Check daily transactions entered by the accounting analyst
Prepare bank reconciliation 
Prepare journal entries for adjustments and accruals
Monitors receivable and payable
Prepare BIR reports
Prepares monthly financial statements
Assist the Finance and Admin manager in her activities.
Do case study for prospect investment.
Act as the I.T. for the company’s system.
Directly reporting to the Operations manager and to the President for the management reports.
Coordinates with the banks for loan and bank services.
Other day to day instruction given by the President.
Megaworld Corporation
Position : Senior Accounting Analyst
Working Period: September 2013 – January 2014
Job Description:
Checking of Daily Sales Transactions (Cinema and Snackbar)
Monitors and check reports of the store accountant.
Processing of APV’s
Preparing Journal Entries for accruals.
Conduct month end inventory counting.
Prepares bank reconciliation.
Prepares BIR forms (E-sales, 1601E/C,2550M/Q)
Responsible in preparation of Financial Statements.
Prepares financial management reports.
Other day to day instructions given by the manager.
Hanston Commercial and Industrial Corporation (HCIC)
Position : Senior Bookkeeper
Working Period: July 2011 – August 2013
Job Description:
Responsible for Financial Statement preparation and its subsidiary and other affiliates.
Filing of Income Tax Returns and Audited Financial Statements to BIR and SEC.
Prepares schedule of accounts.
Prepares monthly bank reconciliation.
Assist The Junior Bookkeeper in preparing the monthly remittances and payments for EFPS such as VAT, EWT and DST.
Monitors filing of taxes (ITR, 0605, RPT, Inventory listings, etc.)
Recording book of accounts in Quickbooks.
Prepares monthly reports generated from Quickbooks.
Prepares monthly Journal Voucher.
Assist the Management Accountant in the management reports and analysis.
Monitors compliance and reports of treasury group.
Update the company regarding BIR Rulings and Issuances.
Safekeeping of contracts to banks and suppliers and preparing a summary of agreements in the contract.
Responsible in making forms used by operations and accounting department.
Check payroll and monitoring the OJT’s
Works with the external auditors during the annual tax audit.
Other day to day instructions given by the Key Officers.
Hanston Commercial and Industrial Corporation (HCIC)
Position: Junior Bookkeeper
Working Period: June 2010 – October 2010
Job Description:
Records book of accounts to Quickbooks.
Prepares account reconciliations.
Responsible in filing of BIR forms and registrations.
Update the manual books of account.
Prepares schedule of accounts.
Hanston Commercial and Industrial Corporation (HCIC)
Position: Internal Audit Staff
Working Period: June 2009 – March 2010
Audit all vouchers and verify all of its attachments.
Reconcile suppliers’ account.
Prepares schedule of accounts.
Achievements Received
Certified Public Accountant: May 2011 					PRC I.D.# 0137766
Top Three (BEC) : Rizal High School: S.Y. 2005 – 2006
Best Research and Researcher: Makabayan Culminating Activity: S.Y. 2005 – 2006
Educational Attainment
Inclusive Year		School/Location
Tertiary		2006 - 2010		Polytechnic University of the Philippines
						Sta. Mesa, Manila
     Course	Bachelor of Science in Accountancy
Secondary		2002-2006		Rizal High School		
Dr. Sixto Antonio Ave, Caniogan, Pasig City
Elementary		1996-2002		Pinagbuhatan Elementary School
M.H. del Pilar St., Pinagbuhatan, Pasig City	
Affiliations
Philippine Institute of Certified Public Accountants
	C.Y. 2011 - present
National Federation of Junior Philippine Institute of Accountants
A. Y. 2006 – 2010
Junior Philippine Institute of Accountants
Y. 2006 – 2010
B.C.E. Scholarship Program
	A. Y . 1998 – 2010	
Seminars/Trainings Attended
Philippine Institute of Certified Public Accountants
“Tax Forum: Recent BIR and Court Decisions”
March 6, 2013: Hotel Intercontinental Manila
Bureau of internal Revenue
“Seminar on Various BIR Issuances & Updates”
September 25, 2012: Rudgen Bldg, Shaw Blvd., Pasig City
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
S.Y. 2006 – 2007
PUP Sta. Mesa
Junior Philippine Institute of Accountants (JPIA)
“An Overview in Financial Accounting and Recent Changes in PFRS/PAS"
July 17, 2007: PUP Sta. Mesa
Philippine National Red Cross
Red Cross Leadership Seminar
September 17 – 24, 2006: PUP Sta. Mesa
Personal Information
Date of Birth	:	December 10, 1989
	Civil Status	:	Single
	Religion	:	Christian
	Citizenship	:	Filipino
	Height		:	5’ 7”
	Weight		:	60 kgs.
	Mother’s Name:	Felisa V. Paguia
	Father’s Name	:	Fernando S. Paguia
Character References
Available upon request.
T.I.N. 290-355-545
SSS # 34-1981714-0
HMDF# 1210-0684-2714
PHIC # 010512108550