ROCHELLE ANN R. FELICIANO    
 
 
312 Magnus Building, Arista Place, Sto. Nino, Paranaque City 
   C: 0926-690-0018 | cheanne.feliciano@gmail.com 
Career Objective 
A strategic partner in making informed business decisions to ensure the company’s financial 
health, stability and profitability, provide fuel to keep the organization moving forward by 
communicating timely and accurate the relevant financial information, manage the corporate 
funds wisely, maintain and enhance the internal controls in order to achieve its goals and vision. 
 
Career Highlights 
 Had handled the Finance and Accounting of 
6 companies with 40 stores. 
 Been in the Finance and Accounting field for 
more than two decades and exposed to all 
facets of Finance and Accounting such as 
Financial 
Reporting, 
Tax 
Compliance, 
Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, 
Credit and Collection, Treasury and General 
Accounting. 
 Worked 
with the 
well-known multi-
national company in the logistics and 
transport industry for 14 years and a top 
premium footwear brand in the retail 
industry for 8 years. 
 Recommended and led the check cutting 
facility through a bank which eased the 
process of payment and reduced more than 
half the time in check preparation. 
 Initiated & attained successfully a doubly 
increase in the company’s credit line from 
the 2 major banks in the country. 
 Created, developed & implemented online 
payment request which hasten the payment 
process during the start of the pandemic. 
 
 
Established and head the monthly 
closing of books and the preparation of 
Financial Statements to provide timely, 
accurate and relevant financial reports 
to the management. 
 
Managed the implementation of an 
installment facility in card terminals of 
the stores to generate more sales. 
 
Led the 
preparation of Accounts 
Receivables Management policies and 
guidelines for collection efficiency. 
 
Pitched in the idea of an Alliance Team 
which is being applied to the sub-
distributors of Havaianas for uniformity 
of procedures and processes, and 
compliance to financial and regulatory 
reports. 
 
Prepared 
and 
recommended 
a 
succession/individual 
development 
plan 
for 
the 
subordinates 
(two 
Supervisors 
were 
promoted 
to 
Assistant Finance Managers and two 
Accounting Assistants were promoted 
to the Supervisory Level. 

 
 
Professional Experience 
 
Comptroller  
 
 
 
 
 
         
                 August 2023 to Present 
Meatworld International, Inc. (Mrs. Garcia’s Meats) 
 
 
 
 
 
          
Makati City, NCR 
 
 Oversee all aspects of financial operations, develop and implement effective financial 
controls. Review financial transactions and ensure accurate financial recording. 
 Managing the financial reporting for the organization. This includes accurate monthly 
financial reporting on a timely manner, budgeting and forecasting, financial plans and all 
statutory financial reporting. 
 Presentation of financial results and provide insights to support operational and strategic 
decisions. 
 Develop and implement financial strategies aligned with business goals.  
 Conduct financial analysis and performance reviews. Monitor expenses and implement cost 
control measures to optimize financial resources. 
 Maintain adherence to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), tax laws, 
reporting requirements and industry standards. 
 Oversee inventory valuation, minimizing shrinkage and spoilage costs. 
 Implement financial controls to safeguard company assets. 
 Establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures to mitigate financial 
risks. 
 Coordinate tax compliance activities, collaborate with tax advisors to optimize the 
company's tax position and identify tax planning opportunities. Stay updated on tax laws 
and regulations and ensure compliance to these. 
 Implement and maintain accounting software and ERP systems. 
 Streamline financial processes to improve accuracy and timeliness, and continuous process 
reviews and improvements are conducted and implemented to achieve cost and 
operational efficiency. 
 Foster collaboration with other departments. 
 Maintain transparency in financial reporting for stakeholders and regulatory bodies. 
 Lead, mentor and supervise a team of 24 finance professionals including Managers and 
Assistant Managers, providing financial services to 401 outlets, assign tasks, set goals, 
provide guidance and support, foster a collaborative and productive work environment, 
promoting professional development and knowledge sharing.  
 Develop high performing employees with full awareness and support to vision and core 
values of the organization through rational decision making, training and coaching, opening 
communication channels like meetings and discussions. 
 Collaborate with internal and external stakeholders, such as auditors, tax consultants and 
regulatory authorities. Build and maintain relationships to support the organization's 
financial objectives. 
 
 
 

 
 
Head of Finance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
            March to May 2023 
The Aivee Group 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                   Taguig City, NCR 
 
 Work with the Management on the strategic vision including fostering and cultivating 
stakeholder relationships as well as assisting in the development and negotiation of 
contracts. 
 Participate in developing new business, assist in identifying new funding opportunities, 
drafting of prospective finance-related programs and determining cost effectiveness of 
prospective business line. 
 Provide sound financial support and insights to enable the Management to make critical 
business decisions  
 Ensure adequate controls are installed in sales recognition, disbursement and procurement 
process. 
 Oversee the management and coordination of all fiscal reporting activities for the 
organization including financial statements and statutory reports to the government 
agencies. 
 Collaborate all purchasing and payroll activities with the department heads. 
 Develop and maintain system of internal controls to safeguard financial assets of the 
organization. 
 Oversee the coordination and activities of independent auditors ensuring all audit issues 
are resolved, all compliance issues are met and the preparation of the annual financial 
statements are in accordance with PAS, GAAP and other required supplementary schedules 
and information. 
 Supervise and monitor the cash flow of the organization to support the need. Highlight and 
report such if the forecasted cash flow position needs infusion. 
 Manage the production of monthly financial reports and review such including its 
comparison to the set budget. 
  Assist in the design, implementation and timely calculations of wage incentives, 
commissions and salaries for the staff, supervisors, managers and doctors. 
 Oversee the maintenance of the inventory of all fixed assets and ensure that they are 
recorded in the books in accordance with the established procedures. 
 Advise and implement best practice methods to increase revenue and reduce costs. 
 Train the Finance Team on raising awareness and knowledge of financial management 
matters. 
 Manage a team of 10 staff including a supervisor, setting job expectations and ensuring that 
they carry out their functions effectively. 
 Assist in performing all tasks necessary to achieve the organization’s mission and help 
execute staff succession and growth plans. 
 
 
Senior Accounting Manager 
 
 
 
 
        August 2020 to March 2023 
HMR Retail Haus. Inc. (HMR Trading Haus, SOS)  
 
 
            Paranaque City, NCR 
 
 Manage the financial reporting for the organization. This includes monthly financial 
reporting, budgeting and forecasting, financial plans and all statutory financial reporting 

 
 
 Presentation of financial results and insights to the Management 
 Manage and oversee the company's financial, payroll, assets and compliance 
 Ensure that key Accounting and Financial Management processes are in place and 
continuous process reviews and improvements are conducted and implemented to 
achieve cost and operational efficiency 
 Play a key role in the formulation of the business and financial strategies 
 Provide sound financial support and insights to enable the Management to make critical 
business decisions 
 Forecast requirements based on annual budget, prepare the annual budget, schedule the 
expenditures, analyze the variances and develop action plans 
 Prepare timely financial statements and other management reports that support business 
decisions 
 Provide profitability analysis for new initiatives and make recommendations as necessary 
 Determine the effect of business decisions on accounting policies 
 Maintain accounting controls by establishing a complete listing of accounts, define and 
improve accounting policies and procedures 
 Develop and implement systems that supports strategic planning and reviews, action plans 
and changes on accounting policies and procedures 
 Secure all company internal information by having strong and solid internal controls 
 Assist and facilitate the quarterly and year-end financial reporting and audit 
 Ensure the company’s compliance with the government requirements 
 Manage the operation’s cash flow 
 Manage the Accounting Department’s day-to-day operations 
 Take the lead in external audits, work with auditors to ensure correctness of year-end 
reporting and maintain timely completion 
 Support the CEO and executive team in executing the established Business Plan and 
Strategies 
 Help develop financial models for new business initiatives 
 Lead a team of 10 staff  including Junior Manager, providing financial services to 21 retail 
stores and 6 franchise stores, setting job expectations and ensuring that each stays 
motivated and engaged 
 Provide coaching and training from time to time to the team members to effectively carry 
out their functions and conduct a performance evaluation 
 Set performance goals and standards to measure actual performance and determine 
performance plans 
 
Senior Finance Manager  
 
 
 
 
December 2012 to August 2020 
Terry S.A. Inc.  (Havaianas Philippines) 
 
 
 
 
 
      Makati City, NCR 
 Responsible for the planning, administration, review and monitoring of all financial and 
accounting activities 
 Organize and oversee the department’s daily operations to ensure the integrity, accuracy, 
completeness and timeliness of recording of financial data and provide timely and relevant 

 
 
financial reports; ascertain the propriety of financial transactions in accordance with the 
accounting standards and company policies and procedures 
 Ensure all payment requirements are properly funded and no payments are delayed due to 
lack of funding 
 Review monthly cash flow forecast  
 Recommend and in-charge of monitoring and implementing fund placements 
 In-charge of the application, monitoring and renewal of credit line facilities with the banks 
 Serve as Officer-in-charge of Finance activities in major company events that involve selling 
 In-charge of monitoring of company dividends 
 Oversee that all deliveries are timely and accurately billed  
 Manage the weekly review and analysis of accounts’ status to provide appropriate follow 
up with regards to overdue payments and determine the correct course of action to collect 
past due balance 
 Lead the credit approval process and ensure that policies and guidelines of granting credit 
to new customers are properly implemented 
 Manage the coordination and reconciliation of inter-company accounts through the 
partnership with appropriate departmental counter-parts and ensure all inter-company 
accounts are confirmed and collected in a timely manner 
 Ensure that the following obligation to pay controls are implemented, i.e. invoice approval, 
PO approval, three-way matching and duplicate payment validation 
 In-charge of  payment processing for confidential transactions 
 Oversee that all payables are processed on time and properly applied to correct taxes 
 Ensure that the following payment controls are implemented, i.e. check printing and 
signing and all checks are stored in a secured location 
 Lead the management of tax planning activities and projects and implement tax strategies 
 Manage tax compliance and provisions processes 
 Direct proper facilitation of all appropriate government agencies’ registration, reporting 
and compliance requirements 
 Ensure compliance with the monthly and year-end closing of books  
 In-charge of providing support during the month and year-end closing procedures 
 Oversee and maintain effective working relations with the different banks, government 
agencies (BIR, SEC, City Hall), external auditors and tax consultants 
 Lead the development and implementation of Finance policies and procedures. Regularly 
update and effectively administer the guidelines and processes; ensure strict adherence of 
the different departments to Finance’s policies and guidelines  
 Assist in the implementation of financial software (SAP) 
 Ensure effective usage and implementation of budget  
 Manage a team of 21 staff, supervisors and assistant Finance Managers, providing financial 
services for 6 companies, monitoring and appraising employees’ job performances 
 Develop high performing employees with full awareness and support to vision and core 
values of the organization through rational decision making, training and coaching, opening 
communication channels like regular meetings and discussions, employee recognition.  
 Set performance goals and standards to measure actual performance and determine 
performance plans 

 
 
FINANCE HEAD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     June 2004 to December 2012 
Aboitiz Project TS Corp. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Paranaque City, NCR 
 
 Provide the direction plan for the department 
 Formulate and assist in carrying out plans, programs, policies and procedures of the company 
 Oversee day-to-day operations, ensuring the accuracy and timeliness of financial and regulatory 
reports; ascertain the propriety of financial transactions in accordance with the  accounting 
standards and company policies and procedures  
 Program cash outflows required to cover payment of due obligations and vouchers 
 Check and review daily cash position and the statement of accounts of customers 
 Conduct monthly financial variance analysis to identify major discrepancies between budgets 
and accruals, investigate root causes and recommend corrective actions to achieve annual goals  
 Coordinate with other departments as well as with the customers to effectively discharge the 
functions of the team 
 Prepare regularly the financial statements of the company and present the financial results in 
the monthly meeting of the Steering Committee and annual board meeting 
 Prepare the Annual Financial Statements and Notes to Financial Statements for the year-end 
audit and filing to the BIR and SEC in accordance with the financial reporting standards and tax 
regulations 
 Review monthly and quarterly withholding tax and VAT BIR returns and related computations 
prepared by the staff to ensure compliance with the tax regulations  
 Prepare quarterly and annual income tax returns for filing to the BIR 
 Prepare annual and midyear budgets and present to the management for approval 
 Prepare and present the financial statements for 3-year strat plan to the Steering Committee 
 Prepare and present the 5-year financial projection to the Steering Committee 
 Lead the processing of the renewal of business permits 
 Formulate, analyze and recommend clients for approval of credit line 
 Assist in the implementation of financial software (Oracle 11i) 
 Liaise with the external auditors and ensure that all the requirements are provided 
promptly to complete the audit process within the tight deadline 
 Manage a team of 5 staff, setting job expectations and ensuring that each stays motivated 
and engaged 
 Provide coaching and training from time to time to the team members to effectively carry 
out his functions and conduct a performance evaluation 
UNIT LEADER 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            August 2001 to June 2004 
Aboitiz One, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
        Pasay City, NCR 
 
 Customize and update training modules for the following: company profile, operating 
guidelines, finance and remittance guidelines 

 
 
 Conceptualize, recommend and implement operational policies, procedures and programs to 
improve operational efficiency 
 Conduct training and re-training for all Luzon agents and branches regarding outlet operations 
to ensure adherence to the company’s sales and service standards 
 Prepare reports for Luzon Network regarding monthly highlights and updates 
 Oversee coordination and ensures that operational concerns of agents and branches are 
properly attended and addressed 
 Plan, organize and conduct meetings of Luzon agents and branches every two months including 
annual agents’ conference 
 Conduct visits at least three branches and agents in a month. 
 Perform regular compliance audit of operational policies and procedures of branches. 
BOOKKEEPER III 
 
 
 
 
 
              December 1997 to August 2001 
Land Bank of the Philippines 
 
 
 
 
 
           Malolos City, Bulacan 
 Input daily transactions of a branch to Field Unit General Ledger System and generate daily Trial 
Balance and monthly General Ledger 
 Post daily transactions to Subsidiary Ledgers 
 Validate the daily transactions of a branch 
 Prepare monthly schedules of Accounts Receivable and Accounts Payable 
 
CA/SA BOOKKEEPER 
 
 Prepare debit and credit advices of the day’s transaction of a branch 
 Post savings and demand transactions in Consumer Transactions Terminal 
 Prepare daily T-account Balances of a branch 
 
SENIOR FINANCIAL ANALYST/FINANCE HEAD  
       November 1994 to December 1997 
Aboitiz Transport System, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Makati City, NCR 
 
 In-charge of all the financial transactions of an alliance company 
 Ensure that all company payables such as supplier invoices and employee reimbursements are 
accurate, valid and adequately supported prior to the preparation of checks in payment thereof 
 Check and review the validity, accuracy and completeness of the transactions for recording 
 Program cash outflows required to cover payment of vouchers and obligations 
 Review monthly and quarterly withholding tax and VAT BIR returns and related computations 
prepared by the staff to ensure compliance with tax regulations 
 Lead the month-end closing activities and ascertain that all financial transactions for the month 
are completely captured and recorded accordingly 

 
 
 Prepare monthly financial statements with related schedule and notes that provide a 
comprehensive analysis of the company’s financial performance and position 
 Prepare annual financial statements and income tax returns in accordance with the financial 
reporting  standards and tax regulations  
 Direct a team of 3 accounting staff, planning and assigning their roles and responsibilities; 
monitor their workflow to ensure seamless processes and enable them to become effective 
team members of the organization   
 
FINANCIAL ANALYST 
 Check and validate the transactions,  analyze noted variances and recommend any adjustments 
or corrections 
 Provide an in-depth analysis of monthly and annual financial reports 
 Conduct regular systems and compliance review 
 Perform cash count of  funds, do an audit of transactions and report findings to the management  
 Propose improved accounting processes and procedures 
 Assist in the budget preparations, bank negotiations and government requirements like 
SEC and BIR 
 
Education 
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy 
 
 
 
 
 
1990-1994 
University of Santo Tomas    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manila, Philippines 
 
Secondary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1986-1990  
St. James Academy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plaridel, Bulacan 
Salutatorian 
 
Elementary  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1980-1986 
St. James Academy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plaridel, Bulacan 
Valedictorian