Served as strategic financial partner to senior leadership distilling complex data into actionable insights for the
following:
            - Annual Stockholders’ Meeting
            - Operations planning 
            - Company performance evaluation
            - Strategic budgeting and forecasting
Led the end- to- end financial reporting cycle using the NOAH system, optimizing workflows to ensure
compliance with Ayala Land Inc.’s rigorous monthly and annual reporting standards
Spearheaded audit readiness initiatives, serving as the primary liaison for external auditors. Collaborated closely
with the Finance team to mitigate reporting risks and ensure smooth interim and year-end audit cycles.
Streamlined account reconciliations in SAP to ensure accuracy, completeness, and integrity of financial data
Managed cash advances, intercompany transactions, payables, and unsubdivided land asset accounts,
maintaining accurate records, performing reconciliations, and supporting financial reporting
Developed a high-performing team culture by mentoring junior associates on technical frameworks and SAP
best practices, directly contributing to the team’s internal promotion rate and operational accuracy.
Certified Public Accountant with over 10 years of progressive experience in financial reporting, audit, budgeting,
forecasting, and cross-functional leadership. Adept at collaborating with top management to deliver actionable
insights, drive strategic decisions, and implement process improvements. Proficient in ERP systems such as SAP
and NOAH. Seeking an internationally oriented finance role leveraging strategic insight, operational discipline, and
flexible collaboration across global teams.
PROFILE SUMMARY
AVIDA LAND CORP (an Ayala Land Company)
February 2016 to Present
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
+639663307457
cuevas.rozelle@gmail.com
ROZELLE C. LESTOR, CPA
Financial Accountant
CAREER HISTORY (Promotions and Movement)
Control and Analysis Sr. Associate Manager- January 2025 to Present
Control and Analysis Associate Manager- August 2024 to December 2024
Accounting Associate Manager- January 2023 to August 2024
Accounting Sr. Specialist- January 2020 to December 2022
Accounting Specialist- January 2018 to December 2019
Accounting Associate- February 2016 to December 2017
EDUCATION
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy
Polytechnic University of the Philippines, Sta. Mesa, Manila
2010- 2014
October 2015
Passed the CPA Licensure Examinatiion
CORE COMPETENCE AND SKILLS
Financial Reporting and Analysis
Budgeting and Forecasting
Cross- Functional Leadership
Process Improvement and Standardization
Technologically Proficient (Advanced Excel, PPT, Microsoft 365, Smartsheet Automations, SAP, NOAH
Collaboration and Time Management
General Trias, Cavite