Personal
Name
Rufo II dela Pena
Address
363 Receiver St., CAA/BF
International, Las Pinas City 
1740 Las Pinas City, Metro Manila,
Philippines
Phone number
+639991717047
Email
rufoadelapenaii@gmail.com
Interests
Watching documentary, browsing
the news, hitting the gym
Rufo II dela Pena
To seek for an organization where I can be a good contribution based on my qualifications, as well as to
find an opportunity to further harness my whole self as a worker.
Accounts Manager
Helmi Talib Philippine Representative Office, Taguig City, Philippines
Served as an Accounts Manager (team leader) performing the following:
Reviews draft management accounts Singapore‑based clients (small entities), using XERO accounting
software.
Reviews GST workings and returns prior to sending to Singapore‑based clients for their review, and
filing to IRAS.
Reviews statutory accounts/unaudited financial statements for Annual Return filing to ACRA; ensures
compliance of unaudited financial statements to Singapore Financial Reporting Standards.
Reviews XBRL‑converted financial statements for attachment to Annual Return filing to ACRA.
Reviews payroll computation.
Reviews disbursements transactions prior to bank authorisation.
Conducts training on updates and refresher on Singapore Financial Reporting Standards.
Monitors team productivity and collections.
Answers accounting, GST and payroll queries to clients.
Schedules team members task and client assignments.
Monitors KPI measures of team members.
Prepares admin report and other adhoc tasks.
Jul 2022 - Present
Accounting Supervisor
DataLand, Inc., Mandaluyong City, Philippines
As an accounting supervisor in DataLand, Inc. (a real estate developer),
Prepares monthly management report for use by the Management and other departments.
Reviews journal entries in relation to revenue/receivables and expenses/payables using SAP software.
Prepares tax returns required to be filed by the Company and its related parties (DataLand Sales
Corporation, Data‑Real Estate Leasing Corporation, NewCove, Inc.)
Provides assistance and guidance to Accounting Associates.
Monitors construction cost for every project.
Drafts rules, memo and policies in the Finance and Accounting Department.
Reviews liquidation report of employees from different departments.
Coordinates with external (auditing firm and tax regulatory) and internal auditors during their conduct
of audit.
Participates in the budget preparation.
Performs adhoc tasks and participates in other department's meeting for process improvement.
Jul 2018 - Jun 2022
Accounting Manager
BBBrothers Philippines, Inc., Las Pinas City, Philippines
As an Accounting Manager of a leading Pharmacy franchisee in the Philippines:
Prepares management report (particularly Income Statement) every month for use of management.
Coordinates with tax consultant for tax filing purposes.
Conducts branch visit to check process and controls in place.
Provides guidance to accounting associates assigned.
Drafts rules, memo and policies in the Finance Department.
Performs adhoc tasks.
Nov 2017 - Jun 2018
Associate Audit Manager
Roxas, Cruz, Tagle and Co. CPAs (formerly part of BDO International Network of Accountants),
Makati City, Philippines
Reviews audit workings from planning to completion phase using Auditing Process Tool.
Formulates audit strategy.
Provides guidance to audit associates assigned.
Oct 2016 - Oct 2017
Work experience

Reviews audited financial statements drafted, prior to filing to the regulatory.
Serves as a contact person to audit clients.
Facilitates training to staff.
Facilitates planning and closing meeting with the client.
Keeps up to date on the new issuances of accounting and auditing standards.
Performs adhoc tasks.
Senior Audit Associate
Roxas, Cruz, Tagle and Co. CPAs (formerly part of BDO International network of Accountants),
Makati City, Philippines
Reviews audit workings from planning to completion phase using Auditing Process Tool (APT).
Participates in formulating audit strategy.
Provides guidance to audit associates assigned.
Reviews audited financial statements drafted, prior to filing to the regulatory.
Serves as a contact person to audit clients.
Facilitates planning and closing meeting with the client.
Keeps up to date on the new issuances of accounting and auditing standards.
Performs adhoc tasks.
Oct 2015 - Sep 2016
Junior Audit Associate
Roxas, Cruz, Tagle and Co. CPAs (formerly part of BDO International network of accountants),
Makati City, Philippines
Performs audit procedures assigned to me by my Senior Associate.
Documents the audit procedures through Auditing Process Tool (APT).
Initial review of the draft financial statements prepared by audit clients.
Prepares draft report prior to attending planning and closing meeting.
Keeps up to date on the new issuances of accounting and auditing standards.
Performs adhoc tasks.
Jul 2013 - Sep 2015
Junior Audit Associate
SyCip Gorres Velayo & Co. (EY Philippines), Makati City, Philippines
Performs audit procedures assigned to me by my Senior Associate.
Documents these procedures using GAMx or GAMx‑SA, depending on the 'financial size' of the audit
clients assigned.
Initial review of the draft financial statements prepared by audit clients.
Prepares draft report prior to attending planning and closing meeting.
Keeps up to date on the new issuances of accounting and auditing standards.
Performs adhoc tasks.
Dec 2012 - Jun 2013
BS Accountancy
Dr. Filemon C. Aguilar Memorial College of Las Pinas City, Las Pinas City
Jun 2007 - Apr 2012
Certified Public Accountant
Professional Regulation Commission - Philippines, Philippines
Nov 2012 - Present
References available on request.
Microsoft Excel
 
Microsoft Word
 
Microsoft PowerPoint
 
SAP software
 
Education and Qualifications
References
Skills

XERO software