Work Experiences 
 
Senior Finance Manager • SANDEN Intercool Group (Multinational  Company) 
December 2010 - Present 
 
Acts as the Group Financial Controller assisting stakeholders and senior management in strategic financial 
planning and analysis, budgeting, KPI financial analysis, financial modelling and risk management. 
 
Ensures that the consolidated financial reports of the company are compliant with statutory regulations and 
with the International Financial Reporting Standards.  
 
Provides and executes financial strategies to stakeholders and top management especially on budgeting, 
financial planning and capital management. 
 
Sets out effective controls over credit and collection and assures management of adequate working capital 
for the company to finance its day-to-day operations. 
 
Heads up any projects concerning the Finance and Accounting Department including process automation 
and improvement, improvement of current business processes and collaborates cross functionally for any 
new business platforms implementations and ERP upgrades 
 
Manages the Treasury, AR, AP and inventory of the company and ensures that they have favorable turnover 
to increase the company’s liquidity and capital among all the entities of the organization. 
Oversees daily operations including general accounting, management reporting and spearheads month-
end and year closing activities and consolidation for presentation to the stakeholders. 
 
A dynamic Finance Leader who has 25 years of vast experience in the 
finance industry in the Philippines and internationally, specializing in financial 
accounting, financial management and control, strategic planning and financial 
analysis with a keen business acumen and a passion and commitment to helping a 
business organization achieve its financial goals and objectives. 
Vast experience in setting-up financial controls on recording and custody of assets 
with start-up companies and multi-entity import/export & distribution companies in 
Philippines, Middle East and North Africa. 
Well-versed in implementing business processes for start-ups and multinational 
companies on Procure-to-Pay, Order-to-Cash and Record-to-Report processes. 
Vast experience in planning, implementation and evaluation of the internal control of 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linkedin: 
 
 
 von.arago@gmail.com 
 
 
 

 
Monitors and evaluate all costs accruing to the group pertaining to the company’s import/ report, job order 
and manufacturing/ assembly activities 
Heads up the annual budgeting process and periodic re-forecasting of expected turnover given current and 
imminent internal and external factors affecting the activities of the company. 
Crafts policies to ensure high AR Turnover and effective Credit Policies and leads in adoption of effective platforms 
with regard to collection to increase liquidity and working capital of the company. 
Analyses and reports immediate and imminent risks that would negatively impact the operations, and assists the 
management in managing these risks and crafting new policies to mitigate, if not complete eradicate, these risks 
in the future. 
Monitors financial data to comply with the accounting standards (IFRS and GAAP), as well as pertinent statutory 
law 
 Checks the leverage ratio of the company and its ability to cover its long-term obligations and makes suggestions   
to stakeholders with regard to capitalization and related costs. 
 Consolidates financial reports and assures stakeholders of the financial health of the group . 
 
 
Finance Manager / Payroll Head • Foodco Holdings (UAE) 
June 2007 - December 2010 
 
Implements internal control and policies within the group particularly proper custody of assets (treasury and 
stocks), and document controllership. 
 
Establishes, implements and evaluates Order-to-Cash, Procure-to-Pay and Record-to-Report processes and 
policies of the organization. 
Reconciles, finalizes and consolidates the financial statements of the group. 
Implements internal control on stocks, treasury, receivables and payables. 
 
Coordinates and liaises with external auditors and government institutions regarding the annual financial audit 
and statutory compliances 
Manages budgeting and financial planning and key financial analysis.  
Analyzes Letter of Credits for importation and liaises with banks for any amendments. 
Manages the payroll and employees benefits for the whole group. 
Implements processes that assure that all the attendance, leaves and other matters concerning the employees are posted 
into the Payroll system. 
 
Prepares the computation of the annual leaves and end-of-service benefits of the employees ensuring its 
compliance with the Labor Law. 
 
Internal Auditor/ Regional Finance Officer • Asia Brewery Incorporated (Philippines) 
November 2004 - February 2007 
 
Performs compliance of various sales office of the company across the Philippines to ensure the accuracy of the 
financial records, to vouch for existence of the Treasury, Stocks and Receivables accounts and reports actionable 
variances to the Internal Audit Manager 

Performs accounts audit of various salesmen from different sales of offices across the Philippines and checks 
the existence of credit accounts exempli ed on credit sales invoices and sees to it the promotional items like 
deals and discounts are actually given out to the customers 
Performs audit measures to locate any fraudulent activities being perpetrated by sales personnel to 
misappropriate cash collections 
Performs treasury and stocks audit and recommends measures to deter any shortages/ pilferages in cash or 
stocks within the sales of office 
Performs table audits of credit sales invoices by checking them against the collection schedule 
 
Furnishes audit reports to Audit Manager and recommends controls and preventive measures to prevent 
fraudulent activities in the sales offices. 
Trains branch accountants and all nance on recording of branch transactions, 
 
 
Franchise Accounting Manager • Top Chow Fastfoods Corp. – Chowking  (Philippines) 
July 2001 - May 2004 
 
Consolidates the financial statement of the 4 franchises for reporting to the Managing Director 
Implements control in all the franchises regarding food control, labor cost control and overhead control 
Oversees inventory management including variances, food wastage and shrinkages 
Prepares and reports to the stakeholders the franchises’ key financial ratios and indicator indictors 
 
Ensures there are control in place to monitor and analyze the Daily Sales Report prepared by the cashiers from 
print-outs generated by POS (cash register) including sales discounts given out to employees and senior citizens 
and cashier’s daily variances across all franchises 
Oversees and manages all payments and required legal forms to the Bureau of Internal Revenue (Income taxes, 
VAT) along with other government agencies (SSS, Philhealth, HDMF) of the company and the employees as well 
across all franchises, including compliance with SEC and local governments. 
Consolidates all income taxes of the franchises and ensures their accuracy and compliance. 
Managers tax preparation and filing including Annual Corporate Income Tax, Quarterly Income tax, Wittholding Taxes 
(Compensation, Expanded, Final) and VAT Returns 
 
Spearheads annual financial audit of the company and liaises with BIR auditors for previous fiscal tax years for 
statutory audit. 
 
Manages cash and disbursements and makes sure that there is adequate working capital for all the franchises in 
carrying out its operations. 
 
Furnishes quarterly and annual tax remittances and reports to government institutions (quarterly income taxes, 
annual tax return, employee’s withholding taxes, Expanded withholding taxes, final withholding taxes, municipal 
taxes, and real property taxes) 
Sets up controls to minimize operating expenses and employees’ pilferages and fraudulent activities 
 
Audit Intern • Ernst & Young (Philippines) 
October 1999 - April 2000 
 
Assists in the examination of the financial statements of the clients to ensure accuracy and compliance 

with GAAP 
Participates in conducting physical inventory counts to vouch its existence against the books of the client, and 
documents findings for audit evidence. 
Assists in reviewing internal controls and processes, evaluating their effectiveness and efficiency in mitigating 
risks to the clients. 
Supports the audit team in ensuring accuracy of financial records. 
 
Compiles and organizes supporting documents and working papers that form the basis of audit conclusions and 
findings. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Education 
 
San Beda University (1996- 2000) 
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy  
(Dean's Lister/ Topnotcher- Accountancy Entrance Examinations) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Softwares 
Languages 
Sage 
Peacthree 
 
Netsuite 
Odoo 
SAP