WILSON VALERIO MEJOS
Pilar Village, Las Piñas City • +639178418615 • wilson.mejos@gmail.com
QUALIFICATION
			Expert knowledge in end-to-end accounting processes and reporting.
EDUCATION			
03MAY2006–13APR2010	DR. FILEMON C. AGUILAR MEMORIAL COLLEGE OF LAS PINAS
Golden Gate Subdivision, Talon III, Las Piñas City.
		Degree:	Bachelor of Science in Business Administration
		Major:	Banking and Finance
APPLICATION SOFTWARE	
Oracle, SAP, SalesForce, SmartView, Tableau, Ariba, PIMS, Xero
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCES
22APR2019–Present	S&P Global Philippines Inc.
2/F Silver City 2 Bldg., Frontera Drive, Brgy Ugong, Pasig City
Team Lead
	Country handled: US
Revenue Accounting – Corporate Team (Handling MI, CI, DJI and Ratings)
Feeds submission for S&P Dow Jones Indices (from Sub Ledger to General Ledger).
Perform PIMS vs Oracle reporting tool – reconciliations.
Support month-end processes, including accounts reconciliations and journal entries for the financial close (Preparation and approval).
Perform balance sheet analysis related to the deferred revenue and other AR accounts and resolve any accounting reconciliations items.
Work with Order to Cash teams and business units in coordinating the revenue system close, lockbox and credit card/receipt cash application issue resolution.
Conduct revenue verifications by employing analytical methods and investigating discrepancies through examination of billing information, accounting records, and other related documents.
Gather information from different company sources to help with the creation of monthly financial reports.
Deliver superior financial report that is presented promptly and precisely, in relation to Deferred Revenue (MI and Ratings).
Work with external auditors (EY) for any ad-hoc requests.
Assist in special projects or key initiatives for the dynamic divisional finance organization.
Update operational policies and procedures as per the changes specific.
Perform backfill support and ad-hoc to other accountants in the team.
Supervising a team.
08MAY2017–19APR2019	SGV & Co. / EYA GTH Manila Inc.
17/F Robinsons Cyber Sigma, Lawton Ave.,McKinley West, Fort Bonifacio, Taguig City 1634
          Senior
	Country handled: Australia and New Zealand
Management Accounting (Reviewer and Preparer)
End to end accounting processes including, but not limited to:
Record of financial transaction in accurate and efficient way.
Prepare payment list and upload in online banking system.
Cash application for the receipt invoices.
Prepare journal entries and doing adjustments when needed.
Running of depreciation.
Reconciliation of bank and GL balances.
Preparation of Business Activity Statement.
Maintaining the general ledger, preparing trial balance and other financial reports.
Prepare monthly, quarterly and year end closing reports.
Provide variance and cost analysis report to monitor actual cost and expenses against budget/business plan and highlight improvement areas in terms of cost savings.
Ensure accurate and timely preparation and review of schedules/reconciliation for all balance sheet and income statement accounts.
Spearhead continuous improvement initiatives together with Financial Controller to promote quality and timely financial reporting.
Providing appropriate financial information and undertaking financial administration and internal audits.
Developing and managing financial system/policies.
Supervising a team.
09MAR2015–03MAY2017	Fresenius Medical Care Solutions Services (Philippines), Inc. 
			9/F AEON Centre, Alabang-Zapote Rd., Filinvest City., Alabang, Muntinlupa City.
Financial Analyst
Country handled: Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Australia and New Zealand
Migrated Accounts Payable Processes for Thailand & Singapore.
Expert in End-to-End Accounts Payable Processes.
Supplier Invoices:
Process Vendor Invoices, Credit Memos in an accurate and efficient method (PO/NONPO).
Review and match vendor invoices with supporting document.
Review and verify petty cash liquidation or reimbursement of the employees.
Work continuously to identify opportunities for process improvement.
Correspond with vendors and respond to inquiries.
Analyze and Report Compliance.
Vendor Mater Data:
Process to create vendor master data.
Ensure and check vendor master form and requirements for creation
Coordinates with local country for any issues and concern.
Payments:
Process Electronic/Cheque Payments in a regular basis.
Clear Auto-debit payments in the system
Upload data in the Banking System.
Process Payments Request
Intercompany Settlement
Travel & Expense Claims:
Perform Audit checks to ensure that employees’ claims are as per country expenses reimbursement policy.
Ensure that expense claims are duly approved by relevant authority.
Account accurately the claims in correct code and timely payment.
Intercompany and Other Reporting:
Process and Reconcile Intercompany Payables and Receivables.
Process Fixed Asset related invoices.
Reconciliation and Analysis of Accounts (GR/IR).
Provides Relevant Data as required for reporting purposes.
Banks Reconciliation.
Gather and Analyze data, generate reports and communicate findings.
Perform training for newly hires employees about AP processes.
Perform such other accounting task that may be required from time to time.
26NOV2012–06MAR2015	UTi Shared Services Manila (ROHQ)
			18/F ECOTOWER, 32nd St corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City. 
Accounts Payable Specialist
Country handled: US, Canada, Greater China, and Asia Pacific
Expert in Accounts Payable for US & APAC countries.
Invoice processing in accurate and efficient method.
Daily resolution of AP & DMS exceptions.
Root cause analysis and problem resolution to eliminate exceptions and issue to recur.
Work directly with business local sites/finance on findings to resolve issue.
Resolve blocked invoices in Oracle and the electronic invoicing environment.
Manage on hold reports and escalations.
Review vendor aging report and management reporting and resolution.
Month end closing activities (Accruals, Reconciliation etc.)
Perform training for the newly hired employees about the process.
Responds to routine questions related to area of responsibility.
Perform other duties that may be needed.
20SEP2010-25NOV2012	Xerox Business Services Philippines, Inc.
7/F ONE-ECOM Centre, Mall of Asia Complex, Pasay City.
Accounting Specialist 
Country handled: Spain, Italy, France, UK, Belgium, and Netherlands
Knowledgeable in Accounts Payable Invoice Processing for Europe Countries.
Balances items, entries or amounts related to documents processed / Data entry validation.
Handle query/request directly from the supplier or counterpart over emails and phone calls.
Responsible to train the newly hired associate.
Generate, review and analyze daily On-hold reports 
Help the processors to determine the correctness and completeness of the process. 
Responsible to validate and correct the wrongly booked invoices.
Perform reconciliation of unpaid invoices.
Conduct huddle with the team, if there is any update with the process.
Other that may be needed.
APR2009-SEP2010 	Corazon B. Zabala Auditing & Accounting Services
B13 L10 Pag-ibig Homes Talon 4, Las Pinas City.
			Audit Assistant
			Country handled: Philippines
Prepare monthly and annual reportorial remittance to Bureau of Internal Revenue (withholding taxes, VAT, percentage tax, quarterly and annual ITR including attach Financial Statements such Balance sheet, Income statement, Cash flow, Capital Statement and Notes to financial statement), SSS, Philhealth and Pag-ibig before signing by authorized signatory. Maintain a file for each government agencies.
Bookkeeping.
Handle Vat Relief, statement of account and Books of Accounts (sales book, cash receipt book, purchase book, & disbursement book )
Petty cashier. Monitor liquidation of petty cash. See to it that petty cash are liquidated after the activity and accordingly make follow up if not liquidated within the specified time.
Payment of business permit and other related taxes with the local government where warehouse owned and rented are located.
Filing of annual reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Filing with the tax authorities of final income tax returns and other monthly/quarterly returns (e.g. final withholding taxes, withholding taxes on compensation).
Perform other tasks that may be assigned or delegated by the Management.