Felimon Arnold Martin V. Villasenor 
Applicant 
391 J. P. Rizal, Ferris Sobell Properties Inc. Sunny Ridges Building 1, 
Brgy. Namayan, Mandaluyong City
09175158864
felimon.villasenor@gmail.com

EDUCATION
Bachelor of Science in Commerce Major in Accountancy
De La Salle University, Manila 
Graduated December 1992
Passed the Board of Accountancy in May 1993
Member of the Government Association of Certified Public Accountants (GAAP) 

WORK EXPERIENCE
Surewell Equities
Property Manager / Accountant 
November 2025 – Present

Accountant
Developed and implemented a comprehensive Accounting Manual.
Reviewed, documented, and streamlined accounting and operational workflows.
Prepared periodic Financial Statements in compliance with accounting standards.
Reviewed and monitored expenses and income to ensure accuracy and cost control.

Property Manager
Managed tenant relations and handled leasing concerns professionally.
Oversaw operations of four (4) condominium buildings.
Analyzed operational improvements to reduce costs without compromising service quality.
Ensured maximum occupancy of rental units.
Assisted in marketing and promotion of rental properties.
Supervised and managed property staff and service providers.


St. Joseph Ventures Construction
Finance and Administration Manager 
 August 2018 – August 2025

General Accountant
Ensured accurate and timely recording of all financial transactions.
Prepared cost estimates and monitored project expenses.
Produced monthly and year-end financial and management reports.
Ensured timely submission and compliance with all tax requirements.
Managed payroll processing and employee compensation.
Implemented inventory control and monitoring procedures.
Computed and filed sales taxes and individual withholding taxes.
Maintained overall tax compliance.

Project Site Consultant
Ensured construction compliance with regulatory and government agencies.
Acted as Construction Safety and Health Officer.
Prepared material and labor cost estimates.
Developed construction schedules, progress billings, and cost reports.
Coordinated with site engineers on design execution and scheduling.
Verified manpower allocation and supervised construction activities.



Philippine Gaming and Amusement Corporation (PAGCOR)
Systems Audit Manager
November 2016 – July 2018

Proponent Systems Audit Manager
Reviewed income accounting systems of gaming proponents.
Evaluated gaming systems, machine tagging, and controls.
Assessed IT systems, firewall security, and internal controls.
Reviewed manpower deployment and operational efficiency.
Ensured compliance with PAGCOR rules, regulations, and standards.






Unlimited Network of Opportunities (UNO)
Accounting Consultant
 July 2016 – October 2018

General Accountant
Performed review and reconciliation of all accounting records.
Led system migration from Rolee Accounting System to ERP.
Reviewed withholding tax computations and monthly tax returns.


MakHoldings
Accounting Consultant
March 2016 – September 2018

General Accountant
Reviewed and enhanced existing accounting systems.
Reconciled accounts with subsidiary companies.
Designed accounting systems for sales, inventory, and payroll.
Led ERP accounting system implementation.
Conducted audits on administrative and operational compliance of 13 branches, Head Office, and Production.
Reviewed and analyzed financial reports for management.

Coca-Cola FEMSA Philippines, Inc.
Finance and Administration Executive
 January 2014 – March 2016

Finance
Reviewed and approved regional financial statements, management reports, rolling estimates, and annual business plans.
Ensured accuracy and reliability of balance sheet accounts in compliance with GAAP and company policies.
Monitored receivables, partners, and special market accounts.
Reviewed inventory and equipment accounts, including reconciliation and asset tagging.
Acted as financial consultant for operational and sales reviews.
Reviewed and approved marketing initiatives, client incentives, and CDE allocations.
Led financial account transformation initiatives within the region.

Administration
Reviewed and monitored regional inventory and equipment.
Oversaw regional operations and distribution activities.
Member of the Ad Hoc Committee on labor relations and risk management.
Ensured compliance with company policies and safety standards.
Supervised implementation of safety protocols. 

Bureau of the Treasury – Region IV-A (CALABARZON)
Regional Accountant 
October 2012 – December 2013

Accounting and Financial Reporting
Planned and supervised regional accounting operations to ensure efficiency and compliance with government regulations.
Consolidated and verified provincial monthly accomplishment and financial reports.
Prepared and submitted SAOB, quarterly DBM reports, financial statements, inventory, liquidation, and project accomplishment reports.
Processed and approved disbursement vouchers and payrolls.
Implemented internal auditing and budget control measures across five (5) regional offices.

Reconciliation and Cash Management
Consolidated daily cash transaction reports from five provinces covering MDS and National Collection System remittances.
Verified transactions with local and head office depository banks.
Reported daily cash positions to the National Cash Accounting Division (NCAD).
Conducted bank account verification and cash book examinations of national government agencies.

Asset Management
Managed inventory and Property, Plant, and Equipment (PPE) accounts of regional and provincial offices.
Audited PPE reports of bonded officials and monitored Treasury Bonds movements.





RZJ Enterprises 
EAST Corporation 
General Accountant
January 2007 to September 2012

Barangay San Lorenzo, Makati City 
Finance Administrative Consultant 
October  2004 to October 2006 

Terra Dos Marketing 
General Accountant
Asset Manager
November 1996 to September 2004

FL Capili and Associates
Accountant
September 1994 to September 1995

Character References

Atty Basilio Almasan 
VP Finance 
Sun Trust
Basilio Jr. Corpuz Almazan
09178367577


Reynaldo “BK” Lawas
Assistant Director
National University - Novaliches
09479961929
rrlawas@national-u.edu.ph

Jonjon Baldovino
Former Equipment Manager
AFP-MBAI
09178607540
jonnov1124@gmail.com | Skills and Training

US Bookkeeping, Payroll, and IRS 1099 Filing with QuickBooks Advance Online Training. 

Australian Virtual Bookkeeping, Taxation and Payroll with Xero
AZE Vector Virtual Training Institute.


QuickBooks Online Accounting System





PCA Authorized Managing Officer Course (AMO Training).
PCA Marivalley Constructors Association Inc.
June 26 to 27, 2025

Construction Occupational Safety and Health Training. 
Thick Safe Training, Consultancy and Services Corporation. 
June 30 to July 3, 2025










Information Systems Audit  Training.
Information Systems Audit and Control Information (ISACA)
 June 2017






Rolee Accounting System
ERP Accounting System







Homegrown Accounting System
ERP Accounting System










SAP Accounting System

Unleash The Highest Potential Of Your Life / Seminar / Workshop.
UNLEASH Int’l Corp.
Sept 2014 to Jan 2015


Achieve Global Making Sense in Business.
Achieve Global Corporate
August 10 to 12, 2015

Basic Frontline Leadership Program.
Achieve Global Corporate and Mr. Jet Magsaysay
July 15 to 17, 2015


MDS and NCS Accounting System Training.
Bureau of the Treasury
December 2012


E-TRA Training
BIR IV
April 2013

Sustaining Ethics & Excellence in Managing Government Resources.
Revised Accounting and Audit Procedures.
Government Association of Certified Public Accountants
April 17 to 20, 2013


Values Orientation Workshop. 
National Account Codes 2014 Review.
Bureau of the Treasury
October 1 to 4, 2013




Review, Reconciliation, Recording, and Inventory of PPE.
Commission on Audit CoA
November 2013





QuickBooks Desktop Accounting System