JONESES MANANGAN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OBJECTIVES 
 To obtain a position that will enable me to use my strong Organizational Skills, Educational 
Background, Wok Experience and ability to work well with people. 
 
EDUCATION 
Tertiary 
: 
Technological Institute of the Philippines 
 
 
  
Aurora Blvd. Cubao Q.C 
 
 
  
Bachelor of Science in Business Administration 
 
 
 
Major in Financial Management and Accounting  
 
 
 
S.Y 2008-2013 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Technological Institute of the Philippines 
 
 
 
Aurora Blvd. Cubao Q.C 
 
 
 
Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education 
 
 
 
Major in Mathematics 
 
 
 
S.Y 2007-2008 
 
 
AREAS OF EXPERIENCE 
 
Bravefoods Global Concepts Holdings Inc. 
 
#7 Scout Dr. Lazcano St. Diliman Quezon City  
 
 
Accounting & Finance Department  
 
 
Position: Accounting & Finance Manager 
September 03, 2023 to present 
 
Duties and Responsibilities: 
 Manage the Accounting Division  
 Development and maintenance of financial reporting systems to ensure integrity of 
financial information based on sound accounting procedures and controls. 
 Prepare and provide on-time and accurate financial reports  
 Review and collate all schedules of account codes and ensure that General Ledger 
and Subsidiary Ledgers are reconciled as well as all clearing accounts have zero 
balances. Oversees preparation of business activity reports,  
 Provides financial analysis to internal users such as interpreting the company’s 
financial statement for business decision-making purposes. 
 Develop staff by managing performance, setting goals, providing ongoing 
training, and maintaining strong employee relationships. 
 Interpret and apply accounting policies, rules, and regulations to all work in order 
to ensure compliance with applicable standards.  
 Monitors risks and establishes internal control. 
 Overall, in-charge in the preparation of Audited Financial Statements and ensure 
that all requirement of external auditors is provided within the set deadline.  
 
115 Purok 4 Luzon Ave. Culiat Quezon City (PHILIPPINES) 
+63 9178523224 
jonesesmanangan@yahoo.com 
 

 Overall, in-charge on handling various kinds of Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) 
Audit and preparing of correspondences to support and protest findings. 
 Ensures compliance on monthly/quarterly filing of necessary report with BIR, SEC 
and other government regulations.  
 Performs other related duties as necessary or assigned. 
 
 
Key Responsibilities: 
1. Financial Reporting 
2.Team Management 
3. Budgeting and Forecasting 
4. Accounts Receivable and Payable 
5. Financial Analysis 
6. Audit and Compliance (BIR, SEC and LGU’s) 
7.Process Improvement 
 
Rykom Finance Corp. 
 
U908 9F Citystate Centre, 709 Shaw Blvd., Pasig City 
 
 
Accounting & Finance Department  
 
 
Position: Accounting & Finance Head 
March 28, 2022 to May 12, 2023 
 
Duties and Responsibilities: 
 Preparation of monthly management accounts and board report and to provide 
relevant and timely financial information to Management and the Board 
including, Profit and Loss, Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statements. 
 Oversee and manage the general accounting and treasury functions, including, 
but not limited to: accounts payable, accounts receivable, general ledger, cash 
management and taxes. 
 Mitigate risks and establishes internal controls and guidelines for accounting 
transactions and budget preparation. 
 Oversees preparation of business activity reports, financial forecasts, and annual 
budgets, the production of periodic financial reports; ensures that the reported 
results comply with generally accepted accounting principles or financial 
reporting standards 
 
 Maintain high level of accuracy in the use of resources through proper 
monitoring and efficient analysis of the accounting and treasury department’s 
activities. 
 Responsible for year-end financial audit activities and the annual corporate 
financial controls audit; tax planning throughout the calendar year and files 
annual corporate tax return. 
 Presents recommendations to management on short and long-term financial 
objectives and policies; assess current practices and procedures, and make 
recommendations for improvements. 
 Provides financial analysis to internal users such as interpreting the company’s 
financial statement for business decision-making purposes. 
 Develop staff by managing performance, setting goals, providing ongoing 
training, and maintaining strong employee relationships. 

 Interpret and apply accounting policies, rules, and regulations to all work in order 
to ensure compliance with applicable standards.  
 Monitors risks and establishes internal control. 
 Ensures compliance on monthly/quarterly filing of necessary report with BIR, SEC 
SEC and other government regulations.  
 Performs other related duties as necessary or assigned. 
 
 
 
Cordlife Medical Phils., Inc. 
 
Unit 104 Building H U.P Ayalaland Technohub Commonwealth Avenue Diliman Quezon City 
 
 
Accounting & Finance Department  
 
 
Position: Accounting Supervisor 
May 18, 2018 to March 25, 2022 
 
Duties and Responsibilities: 
 
 
 
 
 
General: 
 
 Financial Statement Review with the Accounting Manager and Company CEO. 
 Assist and support accounting manager in his tasks time to time and monthly closing 
report. 
 Oversees accounts receivable closing report such as Monthly Revenue, Bank 
Reconciliation and adjustment revenue report. 
 Validation of billing statement for the business-to-business agreement from the 
accredited hospitals and clinics nationwide. 
 Accomplishes accounting and organization mission by completing related results as 
needed.   
 
 
Accounts Receivable and Credit and Collection: 
 
 Accomplishes accounts receivable objectives by orienting, training, assigning, 
scheduling, coaching, counseling, and disciplining employees; communicating job 
expectations; planning, monitoring, appraising job contributions; adhering to policies 
and procedures. 
 Meets accounts receivable operational standards by contributing information to 
strategic plans and reviews; implementing corrective action, and customer-service 
standards; resolving problems; identifying system improvements.  
 Updates receivables by coordinating and monitoring incoming customer’s payments. 
 Collects customer’s account referred by accounts receivable assistant; investigating 
circumstances of non-payment; negotiating and resolving conflicts; expediting 
payment. 
 Verified all client’s invoices detailed by detailed prepared by invoicing team. 
 Monitor, Review, and Verify Accounts Receivable Assistant daily and monthly report. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Prime Pacific Grill (Gerry’s Grill) 
 
#75C Baler St. West Ave San Del Monte Quezon City 
 
 
Accounting & Finance Department  
 
 
Position: Accounting Officer 
March 06, 2014 to May 18, 2018 
 
Duties and Responsibilities: 
 
 
 
General: 
 Prepares and Reviews Monthly Income Statement Report 
 Prepares and Reviews Monthly Balance Sheet Report 
 Prepares and Reviews Monthly Bank Reconciliation 
 Prepares and Reviews Monthly Treasury Reconciliation (Cash Flow Monitoring) 
 Preparation Outlet Payroll 
 BIR Compliance Report (0605, 1601C, 1601E, 1601F,2550M-Vat Monthly, 2550Q-
Quarterly Vat, VAT RELIEF, Quarterly ITR, Annual ITR, ALPHALIST, Letter of Authority 
(LOA) Compliance and Mission Order).  
 Preparation of Outlet Employees Remittances and Loans (SSS, HDMF, PHILHEALTH, & 
Bank LOAN)  
 Inventory Analysis (Conduct Monthly Inventory from Store and Costing)  
 Attends Accounting Training (Internal and External) 
 
Disbursement: 
 Monitoring Aging Payables 
 Review, Verify and Monitor Unpaid Invoice from Suppliers, Cash Advances, Request 
for Check - Down Payment and Final Payment 
 Reviews and Validate P. O’s per supporting documents / per request / per payments 
and coordinates related concerns from the other departments 
 Validate all outlet Receiving Report from System 
 Check Preparation for Outlet Operating Expenses and Others. (Supplier / Petty Cash / 
Advances / Request for Check / Utilities / Rentals / Cash Payroll) 
 Bank email for outlet ATM Payroll 
 Verify and Validate Outlet Revolving Funds according from company policies 
(Emergency Fund, Marketing Fund, On Call Fund and Change Fund) 
 
Receivable:  
 Monitoring Aging Receivable 
 Collection Monitoring for Non-Cash Transaction (Credit Card – BDO / BPI, Delivery – 
Food Panda / Honest Bee, SODEXO and Company Affiliates Gift Certificate) 
 Validate Outlet Daily Sales Report (DSR) 
 Provide Monthly Sales Report 
 Billing Preparation for all Affiliates Transaction (Gift Certificate and SODEXO) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Wenphil Corporation (Wendy’s Philippines) 
 
FGU Tower Ayala Ave. Makati City 
 
Finance Department (Sales Accounting / Accounts Receivable Section)  
 
 
Position: Jr. Accountant 
August 16, 2013 – January 25, 2014 
  
Duties and Responbilities: 
 Process of Monthly Rentals  
 Validation of Statement of Accounts provided by Delivery Tie-up Company through 
Actual Documents provided by Stores. 
 Validation of Sales Declared by Store Versus Actual Declared Sales Pick-up by Bank 
 Checking of Receivable through Store Debit/Credit Card Transaction 
 Audit Assistant (Monthly Store Audit Cash and Supplies) 
 Provide Weekly and Monthly Sales Report 
 Cash Overage/Shortages Monitoring  
 Checking of All Stores Documents  
 
 
SEMINARS AND TRAININGS 
 Year End Essentials Seminar for Philippine Taxpayers 
Tax Acctg Center 
 
 
 
Resource Speaker: Garry S. Pagaspas, CPA 
 
 
 
Green Sun Hotel Makati city 
 
 
 
December 11, 2019 
 
 
 Hitting Targets Through Innovative Collection and Receivables Strategies 
Ariva Academy (Learning Development at its finest)  
 
 
 
Resource Speaker: Ricardo “Ricky” De Vera, MBA 
 
 
 
Marco Polo Ortigas Pasig City 
 
 
 
December 05, 2019 
 
 Leadership and Supervisory Training 
Cordlife Medical Phils., Inc (Headoffice) 
Prime Pacific Grill Corporation (Gerry’s Grill Head Office) 
 
 Latest Tax Updates & New Issuances 
7th Floor BIR-RR8 Makati Social Hall, 313 Sen. Gil Puyat Ave., Makati City 
Under RDO 44 (Florante Aninag) 
February 11, 2016 
 
 On-the-Job Training 
SEC Building, Mandaluyong City 
Monitoring Division / Monitoring Analyst 
January 15, 2013 – March 01, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SKILLS AND INTERESTS 
 
 Xero Certified  
 Proficient in System Applications and Products in Data Processing (SAP) 
 Proficient in QuickBooks 
 Proficient in Microsoft Navision 
 Proficient in PEACH TREE Application 
 Proficient in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Power Point, and Outlook Access) 
 
 
 
CHARACTER REFERENCE 
Thess Yutuc 
Bravefoods Global Concepts Holdings Inc. 
Purchasing Department 
Purchasing Manager  
#7 Scout Dr. Lazcano, Brgy. Paligsahan Quezon City 
0917-566-1399 
 
Reziel Jusi 
Rykom Finance Corp. 
Human Resource Department 
HR Officer 
U908 9F Citystate Centre, 709 Shaw Blvd., Pasig City  
0910-130-1082 
 
Daniel Timoteo 
Cordlife Medical Phils., Inc 
Finance Department 
Accounting Manager 
Unit 104 Building H U.P Ayalaland Technohub Commonwealth Avenue Diliman Quezon City 
0905-304-4160 
 
Eloisa G. Gadot 
Rodelas Builders & Supply (RBS) 
Finance Department 
Accounting Manager 
Km. 19 CAMPE Compound WSR, Sucat Paranaque City 
0925-520-8074 / 0917-150-1420 
 
 
I hereby certify that the above information is true and correct to the best of my ability. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JONESES MANANGAN  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicant