Marietta J Fenol 
217 Dr Pilapil Street San Miguel Pasig City 
Cel no. 09176310528/09064418148 
Email: fenolmarietta@gmail.com 
 
Objective 
To obtain a position where I can maximize my multilayer of analytical skills, quality assurance, program 
development, training experience, customer service, and a successful in field of Business Operations and 
Accounting. 
 
SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS 
Results-oriented, high-energy, hands-on professional, providing the recipient with the highest quality accounting 
service and records. demonstrated ability to meet deadlines while managing multiple projects. 
Major strengths include strong leadership, excellent communication skills, competent, strong team play attention 
to detail, dutiful respect for compliance in all regulated environment, as well as managerial skills including 
hiring, termination, scheduling, training, and other administrative tasks. Thorough knowledge of property 
management service, Cold Storage warehousing services with a clear vision to accomplish the company goals.  
Knowledge with various accounting software ERP –ODOO, Microsoft Dynamics NAV (ERP) , Microsoft 
dynamics 365, IFCA, accounting software QuickBooks, and QNE 
Professional Experience 
 
  Finance and Accounting  Manager –  Mobler Contract Group Inc –MFG/Trading company –( Sept 13, 2024 up 
to present ) 167 F.Manalo St Brgy San Juan City 
● 
Conduct post Audit for the Accounting Documents.  
● 
Check Voucher entries, Sales Invoices according to the source documents. 
● 
Validate entries made to Odoo system software ( AR, AP,GL, Bank Reconciliation) 
● 
Conduct Inventory Analysis System Vs Physical count and recommend adjustment. 
● 
Check All BIR reports before submission to Tax consultant. 
● 
Check sales commissions of in house agents, promoters ,   and freelance agent. 
● 
Submit month Sales Report, Accounts Receivable, Collections to the President. 
● 
Handles Payroll computation for Staff , Workers including government monthly deduction for 
remittances. 
● 
Responsible for the quarterly closing in the system, check System Generated  Financial Statement  ( P and 
L , Balance sheet , Inventory analysis.). 
 
Accounting Manager – 1ROTARY trading Corporation – ( Jan 2024- up to April 2024 ) 17th Flr South corporate 
Tower Fort Bonifacio Taguig. 
 • Reconciliation of Balance sheet account six companies.  
 • Checking of check voucher entries . Checking of data errors for inhouse accounting system 
 
RCS  Finance and Accounting  Manager –  / RCS Shared Services Inc–  Head office 2nd RCS Bldg Miguel 
Villarica Rd Sta Rosa Marilao , Bulacan. [Marxh 2012- October 31, 2022 ] 
 
         Accounting Operation and Financial Management. 

Page 2 
● 
Manage daily Accounting operational activities in all   sites, ensure all process, policies were 
implemented and carry through across the sites.  Collect, review and analyze qualitative reports made by 
supervisors of Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, General Ledgers Supervisors. 
● 
Manages, monitor and implement OPEX and CAPEX    approved yearly budget, cascade to site managers 
and provide actual yearly cost savings for their basis of forecasting and budgeting. 
● 
Manage and supervise the preparation of monthly closing of accounts and submit with the CFO system 
Financial generated report such monthly revenue, Profit and loss per site balance sheet account per site. 
● 
Montor Purchases of Fixed Asset   and its monthly depreciation 
● 
Lead and prepare documentation and assist on the reconciliation for the yearly Financial external Audit, 
BIR LOA and accounting related Operation Audit like to QMS audit and ISO1900 
● 
Ensure all monthly, yearly BIR, Municipal and other government taxes were filed and paid religiously. 
● 
Check bank reconciliation entries, balance sheet schedules, Intercompany adjustments and other related 
party transactions. 
● 
Review and reconcile yearly alp list-compensation   as against the salaries and wages and benefits. 
● 
Monitor bank loans and its amortization, advances of officers  and its liquidation  , Cash fund and 
construction fund movement. 
 
       Cash management and contract management 
● 
Responsible for implementing payroll preparation across sites using HRIS system, ensure payment on 
time. 
● 
Provide weekly Cash position and working capital based on budgeted opex and capex   overdue 
payables, weekly collection. 
● 
Forecast short term cash flows for treasury report basis of their investment, bank loans and working 
capital. 
● 
Monitor and follow up receivables and collections with an objective to improve DSO and collection 
efficiency. 
● 
Monitor and review suppliers service contract agreement costing, project contract agreement costing. 
 
 
    People Management 
● 
Review Quarterly KPI’ of accounting supervisors and asst managers. 
● 
Ensure leadership and system trainings for accounting were implemented and applied with the newly 
hire  
accounting personnel. 
 Project Management 
● 
Monitor Construction in progress expenses based on approved capex per Jobs  
● 
Review documents for importation of construction equipment before payment and recorded to  Fixed 
Asset . 
Accounting Supervisor/ Head Office FPD Asia Services Inc. –Fort Bonifacio Taguig[February 2005 up to November 2010]  
Handle 13 project on site in a one cluster. The nature of business is Property Management of high end and middle 
class commercial and residential building. Provide complete services operational and financial requirements of 
the building including personnel deployment. 
 
● 
Supervise daily activity of accounting assistant on site, check If all the data from the documents were 
encoded in the financial system, from collection of dues, leasing,  payment to suppliers, bank 
reconciliation , accrual, advances and liquidation of officers . 
● 
Monitor all project are complying to all government monthly and yearly reportorial requirements.  

Page 3 
● 
Assist building manager for Annual Budget preparation. Review and evaluate performance of 
Accounting Assistant on site and recommend necessary work improvement and salary adjustment.   
● 
Conduct weekly internal cash audit, assist site accountant on the preparation of monthly Financial 
statement to be presented to the Board of Directors. 
● 
 Assist on site external auditors on the financial requirements for Audited Report for submission to Board 
of Directors in Annual General Membership Meeting.  
● 
Relieved vacant accounting Assistant on site, and prepare required monthly Financial Statement 
including supporting schedules, and other required responsibility. 
 
Bookkeeper/ PDIC –National Government Agency –Pasong Tamo Makati City- 
[Feb 2002- Nov 2003] 
● 
In-Charge for the Reconciliation of Closed Bank Take over by PDIC.  
Accountant/ APMC/ Leisure and Allied Philippines (Time zone) Ayala Makati                      [May 1999-2001] 
The nature of business was a leisure services for Children’TIMEZONE’ Australian based, partner with Ayala 
Property Management Company.  
● 
In-charges for the costing, movement and depreciation of Machineries, replenished cards and other 
reports needed by Australian partner.  
System Consultant / IFCA –Ortigas Pasig                                                                           [February 1997- Dec 1998]   
The nature of business was a system developer Malaysian based, Caters operation and financial system for Hotel 
and Restaurant business, Real Estate, Property Management and Golf Course.         
● 
Conduct Training on how the system works operational and financial. Addressed the modification 
requirements of client with the programmer and developer of the system in terms of operation process 
and financial process. Implement the set-up of Financial Accounts Balances. 
Accounting Assistant / All key International Mfg. Company –Quenzon City            [  January    1996- Jan 1997]                          
The business is about Manufacturing of materials used for semi-conductor business. 
● 
Prepare production and office payroll including remittances of Gov’t mandatory contribution. Custodian 
of Petty cash Fund and other funds used for operation.                                                     
                                                                                                         
Education/Seminars Attended 
College Graduate at Philippine School Business Administration (PSBA-QC) 
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy Year 1992-1997 
Seminar on BIR  Tax Updates  March 30, 2011 Conference Room of RDO No.43A East Pasig City at No.99 E. 
Rodriguez Ave, Pasig City 
Seminar on INSIDER SECRETS OF HANDLING BIR AUDIT March 25,2011 at Crowne Plaza , Galleria Speaker 
Atty Victorino Mamaleteo and prof.Ramelo Gloria. 
Seminar: Expanded Witholding Tax, Bookeeping and Expanded Vat June 29, 2013. 
Training: Basic of leadership RCSI April 28th 2014 
Training : Work Attitudes &Values  Enrichment Training Held October 21, 2015 
Training: KPI Performance Management system 10th of August 2017. 
Training. ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management Systems Internal Audit Course June 6-7, 2017 
Training: CHRES  2 days Managerial Training for Excellence Program: Consultant Rene B Hapitan. July 08, 2017 
Training: PMAP-Train Law 2018 at Ace Hotel Feb 05, 2018 
Training. Training the Resource Persons at RCSI March 3, 2018. 
 

Page 4 
Personal Information 
Civil Status- Married  
Name of Spouse- Eduardcel Fenol 
No# of Dependents- Five Children 
Place of Birth- Pasig 
Birthday – March 24, 1973 
SSS# 33-488-5435-5 
Tin No. 201-313-999-000 
Divers License None Pro.N01-22-311-922 
Government Examination. Professional Civil Service  
 
 
CHARACTER  AND WORK  REFERENCE : 
 
 
Ms. Jo Anne Gotiango 
Michael Fabalina 
RCS  Chief Financial Officer                                         RCS Human Resource Manager 
Cellphone no.0917-704-7532                                         Cellphone no.0917-630-9095 
 
Catherine Charvet- 
RCS FR  and Tax  Compliance Manager 
Cell # 0917-627 2683 
 
Cristina S Pangilinan 
RCS owner  Director 
Cellphone #0998-544-3691