RESUME
POSITION APPLIED:  FINANCE AND ACCOUNTING MANAGER
NAME			:  PLACIDO D. CRUZ
ADDRESS		:  Lot 5A, Blk. 24, Sagittarius Street, Bancom Subdivision, 				               Ampid, San Mateo, Rizal./Novaliches, Quezon City
			   Tel. 09991998841
DATE OF BIRTH	:  October 5, 1961		
RELIGION		:  Catholic
HEIGHT		:  5’9”				WEIGHT  :  175 lbs.
EDUCATION		:
	Certified Public Accountant – Passed in May, 1984
	College	:  Graduate of Bachelor of Science in Business Administration at
			   University of the East – 
	Secondary	:  Graduate of High School at  – Bulacan
	Elementary	:  Graduate of Elementary School – Angat, Bulacan
WORK EXPERIENCES:
PLASTIC & TOOLS, INC. – Laguna Technopark 
Position – Finance and Accounting Manager
Date of Employment – November, 2022 to present
  Approves daily Disbursement and collection;
  Monitoring of daily cash flows and funding of checks issued by the company;
  Monitoring of daily sales, receivables and payables; 
  Sourcing of funds with bank depositories;
  Collaborates with external Auditors and BIR examiners  
  Payment of bi-monthly payroll;   
  Monitoring of monthly compliances to BIR, SSS, Philhealth, HDMF and Philhealth;
  Submission of monthly financial statements, balance sheet and income statement;
  Submits analysis of monthly financial statements and suggestion to control  the costs;
  Preparation of quarterly and yearly income tax return;
  Preparation of yearly budgets;
  Project feasibility study and costing of new projects;
RVA TRADING INC.
Position – Accounting Consultant
Date of employment – January, 2021 to October, 2022
Sourcing of funds
Monthly compliance with BIR, SSS, Philhealth, HDMF
Preparation of monthly financial statements.
Submission of feasibility study of new projects.
BG FRUITS MANUFACTURING CORP.	
Position – Accounting Manager
Date of employment – November, 2013 to December, 2020
Duties and responsibilities:
   Manages the operation of Accounting Department
   Monitor daily cash flows and funds daily checks issued by the company;
   Checks monthly compliances to BIR, SSS, Philhealth, HDMF;
   Monitors requirements to BOC, SEC and Local government taxes;
   Monitors due dates of bank loans with different banks and renewal of credit lines;
   Checks daily inventory and month end inventory;
  Monitors cost of goods manufactured and sold;   
  Submits monthly financial statements Balance Sheet and Income Statement;
PRIME PACIFIC CORPORATION – Restaurant (Dimsum N Dumplings)
ADVENT MANILA HOSPITALITY GROUP, INC - Restaurant
Position – Financial Comptroller
Date of Employment – January 2010 to October,  2013
Duties and responsibilities:
     Manages the daily operation of the company;
     Checks and initials the daily disbursements, collections and deposits;
     Monitors the daily cash position of the company, monitors deposit of  branches/stores;
     Funding of daily  checks issued by the Company; 
     Checks the monthly financial statements like; balance sheet and income statements;
     Negotiates with banks regarding interest rates on deposits and loans with the lowest
    Monitors costs and administer construction for  branch expansion of  restaurants;
     Design plans to save expenses and maximizes profits;
FIRST INTEGRATED FINANCE CORPORATION (Finance Company)
Position – Finance and Accounting Manager
Date of Employment – July, 1994to December, 2009
Duties and responsibilities:
Managing the daily operation of the company;
Checking of daily disbursements, cash receipts, loan receivables and collections;
Checking of reports submitted to government agencies like; Bureau of Internal Revenue, Securities and Exchange Commission, Central Bank, etc.;
Monitoring of daily cash flows with depository banks;
Submission of monthly financial statements and supporting schedules of receivables, payables, etc.;
Liason with government agencies; Bureau of Internal Revenue, Securities and Exchange Commission and banks representatives;
Submits monthly financial statement;
Preparation of yearly budget;
Other duties as required by the President.
SOUTHLAND EXPESS, INC.  (Shipping/Tanker Cargo Company)
Position – Chief Accountant
Date of Employment – July, 1988 to June, 1994
Duties and responsibilities:
Checks daily transaction of the company;
Scrutinizes all disbursements and payables;
Liason with auditors and government agencies;
Submits monthly financial reports balance sheet and income statement;
Checks billings, schedules of accounts receivable and accounts payables;
Other duties assigned by the President.
CAPTOL BANK (Development Bank Institution)
Date of Employment – October, 1980 to June, 1988
Position – Audit Examiner
Duties and responsibilities:
Audit of all banking transactions like loans, cash position etc,  sees to it that all banking laws and procedures are being followed;
Monthly audit of bank’s branches;
Preparation of reports regarding deviations and recommendations based on the audit conducted.
Position – Branch Accountant
Duties and responsibilities:
Checking of daily transaction of the bank’s branch;
Submission of daily transaction of bank’s branch;
Submission of monthly financial statement of bank’s branch.
Position – Collection Bookkeeper
Duties and responsibilities:
Computation and receipt of monthly amortization due of banks loan clients;
Sending of collection letters to delinquent borrowers;
Submission of monthly loan portfolio, ageing of loan receivables, etc.
Position – Loans Clerk
Processing of loan application;
Preparation of loan documents, like promissory note, mortgage contracts, cancellation of mortgage, etc.
Releasing of approved loans.
REFERENCES:
Sofronio A. Pilar
Chief Accountant
Rural Bank of San Ildefonso Bulacan
723-25-65
Veronica M. del Rosario
Accountant
Vitalink Lending Corporation
09053262689
Marilyn B. Taveso
Executive Assisstant to President
Alyam& Sons Development Corp.
534-9758