Job target: 
ACCOUNTING 
MANAGER 
 
Email Address: 
jaden1499911@gmail.com 
 
Address: 
 
Block 11 Lot 7, Bernabe 
Compound Pulang Lupa 
Uno, Las Piñas City  
  
No.33  Purok 7 
Bakakeng  North, 
Baguio City 2600 
Philippines 
 
 
Globe+63977-6748845 
  
 
                          
Computer Literate 
Proficient in MS Office 
(Word, Excel, Power Point,  
Accounting Software 
QuickBooks, XERO,QNE, 
REWARDLY,Peach Tree, SAP, 
SOHO)  
 All Windows OS. 
 
 
 
Availability:  Immediate 
 
 
           Raquel  Laroco - Esperanza  
Capabilities:  
Create and maintain a simple highly workable file system. Supervise office staff 
with diverse duties. Handle high-pressure situations and deadlines. Prepare 
financial reports and other reports. Handle accounting procedures and 
purchasing for large office. Perform detailed customer audits. Ability to handle 
multiple tasks and responsibilities. 
Accomplishments: 
• 
Maintained business relationships with high level financial executives. 
• 
Assisted with daily cash/bank reconciliation.  
• 
Conducted detailed audits of clients.   
• 
Wrote and research a detailed study of marketing. 
• 
Handle credit analyses and references and made credit  
recommendations. 
• 
Installed and supervised automated payroll system. 
• 
Coordinated implemented and supervised maintenance of all records 
and systems. 
• 
Maintained business personal calendars. 
• 
Coordinated purchase orders and responded to customer complaints 
and service inquiries. 
• 
Acted as liaison between clients and company. 
• 
Developed preventive maintenance schedules and handled follow-
through. 
 
Key Skills 
 
Fast learner, flexible, patient, sincere, honest, hardworking and willing to learn 
more .Good interaction with all levels of Internal and External Organizations. 
An effective team player with strong presentation communication and 
analytical skills. Able to work independently and can easily adjust in a new 
working environment. Ability to handle multiple tasks and responsibilities. 
Educational Background 
 
Metro Data Computer College 
Baguio  City, Philippines 
Diploma in Bachelor of Science in Computer Science SY: 1991-1995  
STI COLLEGE 
Makati City Metro Manila/Baguio City, Philippines 
Diploma in Business Management Systems/Computer Programming  
SY: 1989-1991  
International Correspondence School 
Metro Manila Philippines 
Course:  Accountancy/ Computer Engineering      
 
 
 
 
 

Working Experiences 
 ACCOUNTING & FINANCE MANAGER  
SHAWARMA SHACK FASTFOOD CORPORATION. 
7th Floor, MC Square Building, Mindanao Ave. Cor Tandang Sora Ave., Quezon City 
April 3, 2023   to  October 1, 2025 
FINANCE/ACCOUNTING TASKS: 
Job Description: 
➢ Maintaining a system, manage and overseeing day-to-day accounting functions of Shawarma Shack 
Group of Companies 
➢ Monitoring and reporting transactions and financial events in compliance with PFRS on Small Entities and 
company policy. 
➢ Maximizing return on financial assets by forming solid financial projects, procedures, policies, control, and 
reporting systems. 
➢ Maintaining expertise over accounting operations, such as accounts payables/receivables, general ledger, 
cash receipts, treasury, revenue and expenditure, variance analysis, and fixed asset activity. 
➢ Ensuring accurate and timely accounting reporting such as financial position, financial performance and 
Cash flow, monthly, quarterly and year-end close. 
➢ Providing data to externals that handles (BIR, Sec & Local registration) for Shawarma Shack 
Group compliance. 
 
 
 
Working Experiences 
 ACCOUNTING & FINANCE MANAGER  
RUCS KONSULT CORPORATION. 
Unit 3602, Summit One Tower, Shaw Blvd., Mandaluyong City, Metro Manila 
October 14, 2021   to  March 7, 2023 
FINANCE/ACCOUNTING TASKS: 
Job Description: 
➢ Supervise employees who do financial reporting and budgeting 
➢ Review Financial reports and seek ways to reduce costs 
➢ Prepare Financial statements, business activity reports and forecasts 
➢ Decide how much money is needed and when, and how best to use the available funds 
➢ Managing budgets and finances, developing policies 
➢ Actual performance analysis, Financial forecasts and projections of revenues and expenses 
➢ Monitoring, controlling, protecting, and reporting on a company’s financial resources 
➢ Allocates budgets for the required spending of the company such as rents , salaries, direct materials, COS 
➢ Responsible for managing financial resources ensuring the company’s financial status 
➢ Involved activities such as financial planning, budgeting, forecasting, financial analysis and accounting 
reports 
➢ Responsible for the internal Audit report for disbursement, Accounts receivables, Accounts Payables 
➢ Using financial data and reports to make financial decisions. 
➢ Cashflow, Bank transaction / Bank reconciliation/ P & L report monthly 
➢ Responsible in overseeing end-to-end process finance and accounting operations 
➢ Managing and overseeing the daily operations of the Accounting and Finance Department 
➢ Monitoring and analyzing accounting data and produce financial reports. Establishing and enforcing proper 
accounting methods, policies and principles. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 PAYROLL/ACCOUNTING OFFICER 
Dragonhart Construction Enterprise Inc. 
30th Floor IBM Plaza Eastwood Avenue, Bagumbayan, Quezon City 
May 20, 2019  – March 13, 2020 
ACCOUNTING & FINANCE TASKS: 
Job Description: 
➢ Verify timekeeping records and consult employees about any discrepancies. 
➢ Record Payroll data and verify all amounts to final processing. 
➢ Responsible in Distribution of Monthly and Weekly Payroll in all Site. 
➢ Responsible in monitoring the unreleased payroll to be endorsed to Finance for deposit. 
➢ Responsible in monitoring the Cash Advance,PPE, Globe deductions, SSS/Pag-ibig loans. 
➢ Record employee complaints, questions, concerns about payroll services and communicate those issues to 
HR Manager. 
➢ Proper filling of Payslip/ Receiving copy for monthly and weekly payroll 
➢ Proper filling of monthly and weekly Pay Register. 
➢ Proper filling for monthly and weekly DTR. 
➢ Report Summary of Mandatory contribution for posting to HR. 
➢ Maintain complaint policies and procedures for processing payroll. 
 
 
ACCOUNTING & FINANCE MANAGER   
Swiss Baker Incorporated 
GF-4 Puso ng Baguio Building, Session Road, Baguio City 
April 9 , 2013 – May 3, 2019 
ACCOUNTING & FINANCE TASKS: 
Job Description: 
➢ Prepare update and submit Company’s  Cash flow 
➢ Preparation of checks online for authorization. 
➢ Preparation of premium payable reports and remittances. 
➢ Preparation of Payroll  and pay slips 
➢ Preparation on Monthly profit and lost (P&L)  and update of asset monitoring 
➢ Monitoring of Loan’s principal and interest payments 
➢ Follow up payment for Accounts Receivables, Accounts Payables 
➢ Monitoring of  Employee Personal  Loans 
➢ Cash count of Sales per shift. 
➢ Preparation of checks for deposit/ depositing of Sales. 
➢ Attaching Deposit slips in cashier’s reports 
➢ Petty Cash Management 
➢ Preparation of Statement of Accounts for Debtor and Charges. 
➢ Filling of Physical and Electronic copies of check vouchers, bank statements, cashier’s report, BIR and 
premiums reports and remittances, premium payments. 
➢ BIR Reports Cash Receipts Book(CRB), summary list of sales and purchases (SLSP), Alpha list of employees 
and Payee, check disbursement book (CDB) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

ACCOUNTING/ADMIN/FINANCE MANAGER   
Pascal Hi-Tech Trading and Services 
Naguilian Road Baguio City, Philippines 
June 25, 2007 – March 1, 2013 
Pascal Hi-Tech Trading & Services is a Commercial Engineering, Importer, and Service Provider 
Clients: MOOG Controls. TI Phils Inc, Jollibee Foods Corp., Aboitiz, Camp John Hay Corp., PLDT and Smart 
Service and maintain all types of applied refrigeration and applied air conditioning for semiconductors. As well 
as installation and repair of all kinds of air conditioning equipments, from comfort cooling, ventilation, and 
exhaust systems for residential and commercial establishments including car air con systems. 
ADMINISTRATIVE TASKS: 
Job Description: 
➢ Provide entire spectrum of  administrative support to the Managing Director/President  ensuring all daily 
operational matters relating to his office are in order.                  
➢ Uses extensive knowledge of the Executive's priorities and business practices to proactively respond to daily 
issues/requests as authorized. 
➢ Schedules/re-schedules appointments and meetings, using knowledge and judgment of the executives  
priorities and business practices/procedures.  
➢  Routinely, executes special research or continuous research and data analysis tasks and prepares   
    reports and recommendations.   
➢  Composes letters and memos, reports and presentation material and generate confidential  
    reports  and documents. 
➢  Screens phone calls and where possible, immediately deals with issues/requests on behalf of the 
Director/General Manager (as authorized). 
➢  Sets up meetings, and conference calls as needed.            
➢  Identify correspondence which requires a response and prepare draft for Executive to review and edit. 
➢  Responsible to Managing Director in various projects implementation 
➢  Plan, organize and coordinate meetings and conferences, various Customers. 
➢  Liaise and interact with business partners. 
➢  Provide Sales and Admin support such as quotation, order processing. etc. 
➢  Other projects duties as assigned from time to time. 
 
FINANCIAL TASKS: 
Job Description: 
➢ Preparation of semi -monthly payroll reports. 
➢ Preparation of monthly management reports, in coordination with the operations managers. 
➢ Maintaining copies of all transactions of the company. 
➢ General bookkeeping, management of receipts for operational expenses and petty cash 
➢ Creating petty cash reports on a scheduled basis, for requisition of replenishment from the company.  
➢ Generates all reports accounts payables, accounts receivables, income statement, expenses. 
➢ Balance sheet reconciliations such as Bank reconciliations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SALES / FINANCE MANAGER  CAS 
Millennium Plans Incorporated 
Millenium Building, 156 20th Avenue Cubao, Quezon City, Philippines 
Pre-need /Insurance Company   
 
 
 
 
 
October 4, 2004  - May 25, 2007 
Job Description: 
➢ Accurate and efficient encoding/processing of all Member Account information, including information/data 
amendments/other requests. 
➢ Accurate and efficient screening/basic underwriting of insurance documents 
➢ Provide efficient above industry customer standards 
➢ General administrative and clerical support  prepare letters and documents. 
➢ Schedule appointments and  organize  meetings. 
➢ Efficient cashiering and funds management 
➢ Direct persons to correct destination 
➢ Ensures knowledge of staff movements in and out of organization 
➢ Maintain appointment diary either manually or electronically 
➢ Deal with queries from the public customers 
➢ Answer questions regarding examinations,eligibility,salaries,benefits, and other pertinent information. 
➢ Process and review employment applications in order to evaluate qualifications or eligibility of applicants. 
➢ Answer telephone, screen and direct calls provide information to customers. 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE/FINANCE OFFICER IN CHARGE  
A & A MARKETING (Exclusive Distributor) 
San Miguel Corporation  
Irisan Road, Baguio City Philippines  
February 19, 1996- June 05, 2004                      
San Miguel Corporation (SMC) is Southeast Asia's largest publicly listed food, beverage and packaging 
company with over 15,000 employees in over 90 major facilities throughout the Asia-Pacific.                                                          
Job Description: 
➢ Sales Liquidation System 
 
 
 
 
 
Objective: To determine total Accountability of Salesman at the end of the day. 
 
➢ Accountability by Route 
❖ Sales including Pricing,  
❖ Collections- Cash, Check, Stocks 
➢ Route Liquidation Report 
➢ Shortages/Overages Report 
➢ Daily Sales Performance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
➢ Sales Summary by product VAT to BIR 
 
 
➢ Sales Information System 
❖ All transactions are maintained for a month and can be deleted after using the End-of-Month 
Processing module.  It initializes all posted transactions for the month specified. 
❖ Monthly sales reports.  The control totals of the reports reconcile with one another given the 
same cut-off date and level breakdown. 
➢ Investigate and assimilate information about the way a system currently operates. 
➢ Analyze its performance in the light of the systems objectives which are identified by management. 
➢ Develop and evaluate ideas on how the system can be improved. 
➢ Do the Cash Flow, Accounts Receivables, Monthly Statements of Account 
➢ Prepare for the Payroll System. 
SSS R3 Tape, PAG-IBIG, PHILHEALTH 
➢ Dealer Information System