Experience
Company Name	: Iberica Verheilen Pharmaceutical Group.
Industry		: Distribution/Pharmaceutical 
Address		: 18 Malumanay Street, Sikatuna Village, Quezon City	
Position Title		: Finance and Admin Head
Duration		: July 2022 to November 6, 2025
Duties and Responsibilities: - Finance and Admin Head
I. Finance 
Review and finalized Financial Statement per Sales Personnel, per District and National.
Prepare comparative sales report in peso and unit per District and National.
Review monthly and Year-To-Date unit and peso quota submitted by the district subject for approval of the Management.
Prepare unit costing and SRP of the new products and price movement.
Review client’s discounts, rebate and tie-ups. Cash Advance Deal (CAD), local and international trips and other clients request covered by tie-up agreement.
Review and finalized Area Manager’s incentives.
Reviews expenses per District and National.
Reviews Cash Flows including AR turn over and payable settlements.
Discussed financial issues including Financial Statements analysis  with District Managing Directors
Prepare process in relationship with financial matter of the company.
II.  Administration
Review employment agreement of newly hired personnel and manpower movement including salary increase
Review inventory movement, units to be purchase and projection/forecast per unit using sales history of the products
Prepare operations process and flows in relationship with the controls for operations of the company.
Monitor property developments of the company.
Develops employees’ programs of the company.
Orients newly hired employees in regards with Accounting and Administrative Policies.
Company Name	: Mega Cellular Network Inc.
Industry		: Retails 
Address		: 1953 – 55 M. Adriatico Street
			   Malate, Manila City	
Position Title		: Audit Manger 
Duration		: February 2020 – July 2022
Duties and Responsibilities: - Audit Manager 
Review Audit Reports, prepares monthly summary for discussion with other Department Heads and for submission to the Management.
Performs operational and financial audits
Identifying business process risks, developing testing methodologies to evaluate the adequacy of controls and documenting the results of the evaluations
Developing recommendations and reports based on audits and presenting these ideas to the Management
Formulating professional development and educational plans for Audit Department members
Planning and allocating resources and individuals in accordance with skills and schedules
Review current practice of the operations and recommend control development.
Company Name	: Cherry Blossoms Hotel / Citystate Tower Hotel
Industry		: Hotel/Service
Address		: 550 Jorge Bocobo Extension, Ermita, Manila City
			 1515 Mabini Street Ermita, Manila City
Position Title		: Assistant Accounting Manager / Accounting Supervisor 
Duration		: February 2014 – October 30, 2019 
Duties and Responsibilities: - Assistant Accounting Manager
Primary Functions
Plotting and Monitoring of Daily Sales Reports, validates entries over Accounting/Hotel System used.
Validates Outlet Sales Report.
Review Daily Expenses.
Review Payroll (Weekly and on Call Personnel)
Review of Check Vouchers (Account Payables)
Review of Statement of Accounts (Account Receivables)
Review Night Audit Report.
Review Inventory Reconciliation (Stockroom, outlet, bars, restaurant, kitchen)
Update daily Cash Position Report
Attend Weekly Manager’s Meeting.
Financial Statement and Government Requirements
Prepare Financial Statement Report (in-House and for Government Requirement.
Process Government Permit and Licenses
Hotel System Development Team
Set up all beginning data of Financial Statement.
Set up menu engineering
Sep up Menu and pricing at POS system
Monitor inventory balance movement
Prepare necessary policies and guidelines to maintain controls and policies of the company in compliance of running the hotel system
Coordinate with system provider for some areas need to develop on the system
Duties and Responsibilities: - Accounting Supervisor
Cost Control Functions
Prepare costing of Food, Beverages and Amenities.
Validate Event Orders prepared by Sales Department based on approved costing of banquet menu and amenities.
Night Audit Functions
Validate Daily Sales Report (cashiers and billing clerks).
Room rate validation as to approve rates and posted on hotel system. This includes proper charging of other room incidentals.
Validate Room reports of Front Office and Housekeeping Department.
Closing of Hotel System Process to ensure charges was posted in every guest folio
Validation of High Balance Report and coordinate with Front Office department to take action on it.
Validation of POS report (Order Slip and Settlement series)
Company Name	: Cherry Blossoms Hotel
Industry		: Hotel/Service
Address		: 550 Jorge Bocobo Extension, Ermita
			  Manila City
Position Title		: Accounting Personnel
Duration		: August 2010 – February 2014
Duties and Responsibilities:
General Accounting
Validates daily sales and expenses of KTV operation.
Prepare commission for Ladies Drink of KTV Manager and GRO’s
Validates Costing of Food and Beverages for KTV sales
Prepares Monthly Financial Statement of KTV
Prepare weekly pay-out payroll of hotel staffs (two hotels)
Monitor selected advances to officers and employees
Prepares monthly report to government agencies (BIR, SSS, PHILHEALTH, Pagibig)
Accounts Payable
PreparesCheck Requisition for all disbursement and payments to suppliers.
Prepares Disbursement Voucher and Check upon approval of the management.
Monitors monthly payments for hotel utilities and fixed expenses
Monitor of payments of bank loans, principal and interest.  This includes validation of computation especially interest due based on cut-off and number of days.
Reconcile advance payments made to suppliers including long due accounts
Company Name	: Edgeworth Nursing Review Center
Industry		: Education
Address		: 875 P. Campa Street, Sampaloc
			  Manila City
Position Title		: Accounting Supervisor
Duration		: March 2009 –July 2010
Duties and Responsibilities:
Assist Management in financial and operational planning in every season of operations
Prepares all financial reports including result of operations and analysis of each branch and come-up with recommendations for any adjustment to be made in succeeding operation of branch concerned
Validates monitors receivables from reviewee and payables.
Prepares and comply in all governmental reportorial requirements
Discuss critical issues with the Management especially financial concerns.
Monitor over-all financial movement of all branches	
Company Name	: CD Jeans Direct Selling Company, Co. Inc
Industry		: Retail / Merchandise
Address		: 5th Floor Northridge Building
			  12 Congressional Avenue, Quezon City
Position Title		: Audit Supervisor
Duration		: July 2005 - Feb 2009
Duties and Responsibilities:
Review and finalized audit reports submitted by Internal Auditors prior to submission to the President
Discuss critical findings with the keys personnel of the outlet and other Departments
Monitor and oversee preparation of Financial Statement for submission to the President and BIR 
Assist other departments in conducting evaluation of current policy and recommend applicable updates and revisions.
Validates cash collections and deposit.
Validates Sales Report Summary against Sales Journal 
Validates outlets compliance on prices (cost and outlet price) based on issued Sales Journal.
Examine validity of the Customers Deposit account from its beginning balance and usages.
Validates inventory of the outlet per ledger.
Conduct on the spot validation and checking of actual stocks on hand against stocks per record.
Validates compliance of the outlets on the set policies on expenses and general disbursements.
Examine payroll of the branch.
Review compliance on the outlets on the set marketing activities of the company.
Conduct ocular inspection on the outlets facilities especially on the proper maintenance of the stockroom (proper safekeeping of outlets stocks).
Conduct on the spot cash count during field visit.
Prepare additional policies, guidelines and standard operational procedures for improvement of the company’s operation.	
Company Name	: AMA Computer Learning Center, Inc
Industry		: Education
Address		: 59 Panay Avenue
			  Quezon City
Position Title		: Audit Supervisor
Duration		: June 1996 - July 2005
Duties and Responsibilities -  Franchise Operations:
Review and finalized audit reports submitted by Internal Auditors prior to submission to the Audit Director
Prepares Monthly Workplan of Internal Auditor and monitors their compliance on all deadlines per work schedule.
Prepare Annual Budget for Franchise Group (Audit).
Discuss critical findings with the keys personnel of the franchise and other Department.
Audit of account receivables from franchises, these includes detailed study and submission of recommendation that benefited on both parties but to improve collections and minimized receivables of the company.
Assist other departments in conducting evaluation of franchisees submitted intention for renewal of agreement with the company.
Audit of graduating students.
Compliance and operational audit of other department to validate their compliance on the set operational standards per department concerned.
Audit of final accountabilities of terminated franchises.
Conduct branch visit to validate both financial and operational compliance of the franchises on the set standards by the Head Office.
Duties and Responsibilities - Company Owned Operations:
Conduct Financial Statement (FS) audit every end of school year.
Audit of Account Receivable from students and other affiliates.
Pre-audit of disbursement vouchers to ensure compliance of all department on the guidelines, procedures and policy of the company in processing and documentation of all operational expenses of the branch.
Ensure compliance of all branch personnel on the company rules and policies.
Ensure that all policies are followed to protect the physical plants and assets of the company.  These includes physical count, inventory and reconciliation of assets, supplies and merchandise of the branch.
Conduct monthly review and monitoring of branch’s cash flow, collection monitoring and Bank Reconciliation.
Conduct routine cash counts of all branch’s funds and collection.
Audit of graduating students.		
Seminar Attended
Skills
Experience Level - Total 15 Year(s) of Experience
Computer Literate - Windows Program  MS Excel, MS Word, Power Point
Accounting Systems  PRINCES, IFMS, Quick Books
Languages - (Proficiency: 0=Poor - 10=Excellent)
Language			    Spoken		Written
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	English			        7			    7
	Tagalog			      10			   10	
Personal Data
Education
	Bachelor of Science in Accountancy
	Divine Word College - San Jose 
	San Jose Occidental Mindoro
	April 1995
Personal Information
Gender : Male
Age : 52
Birth date : June 18, 1974
Religion : Iglesia Ni Cristo
Birthplace : San Jose Occidental Mindoro
Spouse : Mrs. Leonor C. Sabado
Occupation:  Vault Custodian (Tambunting Pawnshop)	
Personal References
To be issued upon request
REY C. SABADO
Contact Details
Address       : Tibagan Compd., 23 Snt. Andrew St. Remerville Subd, 
                      Barangay Baesa, Proj. 8, Quezon City, 1106 -     
                      Philippines
 Mobile No. : +639766585901
 Email	         : reysabado061874@gmail.com
Leadership Training Program
(Supervising & Managing People Effectively)
CD Jeans Direct Selling Company, Inc.
5th Floor Northridge Building
12 Congressional Avenue, Quezon City
Participation: 	Delegate
Inclusive Date:  January 8 and 14, 2006 | Test of Controls for Audit			
AMACU-QC, Quezon City
Participation: 	Delegate
Inclusive Date:  June 11, 2003
Writing Audit Report
AMACU-QC, Quezon City
Participation: 	Delegate
Inclusive Date:  May 9, 2004 | PAST Orientation
AMACU-QC, Quezon City
Participation: 	Delegate
Inclusive Date:  February 19, 2003