Objectives
To be able to use the degree in Accountancy into practice in order to continuously improve my knowledge and experience in this field, and be able to be an integral part of the company I am working for. I also would like to be able to provide for my family.
Education
Polytechnic University of the Philippines – Course – BSA 
1990 – 1994 -  Bachelor in Accountancy
Jose Abad Santos High School – Secondary Education 
1981 – 1985 – Secondary Education
Padre Zamora Elementary School – Primary Education
1975 – 1981 – Primary Education
Experiences
Super Strong Concrete Inc. – Mabato Road corner Dr. A. Natividad, Napindan, Taguig City
Accounting  Manager – June  2022 – Present - Supervise the whole accounting process, Payroll Checking and Verification, Counter Checking Vouchers, Checks prepared, Check preparation, Preparation of Monthly Financial Statements, Cash Flow Forecasting, Variance Analysis, and Government Filing and any other reports required by management.
Siccion Marketing, Inc. – 1008 CBS Bldg., Alfonso Mendoza Avenue, cor Lacson St, Sampaloc, Metro Manila
Accounting  Manager – September  2019 – May 2022 - Supervise the whole accounting process, Payroll Checking and Verification, Counter Checking Vouchers, Checks prepared, Check preparation, Preparation of Monthly Financial Statements, Cash Flow Forecasting, Variance Analysis, and Government Filing and any other reports required by management.
Artist and Co. Manila (At East, Inc.) – 3rd Flr. 
A. Venue Mall, Makati Ave. Makati City
Finance Manager – October 2016 – June 2018  - Supervise the whole accounting process, Payroll Checking and Verification, Counter Checking Vouchers, Checks prepared, Check preparation, Preparation of Monthly Financial Statements, Cash Flow Forecasting, Variance Analysis, and Government Filing and any other reports required by management.
F2020 International Corporation – Manggahan Avenue, Pasig City
Accounting Manager – April 2012 – July 2016 -    Supervise the whole accounting process, Payroll Checking and Verification, Counter Checking Vouchers, Checks prepared, Check preparation, Preparation of Monthly Financial Statements and Government Filing and any other reports required by management.
KGJS Fleet Management Manila, Inc.
General Accountant – May 2007 – March 2012 – 6th & 7th Flr. Rufino Pacific Plaza, Ayala Avenue, Makati City. - Supervise the whole accounting process, Payroll Checking and Verification, Counter Checking Vouchers, Checks prepared, Check preparation, Preparation of Monthly Financial Statements and Government Filing and any other reports required by management.
Lifemed Clinics & Laboratories, Inc. – BPI Bldg. South Super Hi-way cor. Gil Puyat Ave. Makati City.
General Accountant – June 2005 – April 2007  - Supervise the whole accounting process, Payroll Checking and Verification, Counter Checking Vouchers, Checks prepared, Check preparation, Preparation of Monthly Financial Statements and Government Filing and any other reports required by management.
Cathay Builder’s Center, Inc. – Don  Roman  Bldg.  Edsa,  Pasay City
General Accountant – September 9 -  May 2005 - Supervise the whole accounting process, Payroll Checking and Verification, Counter Checking Vouchers, Checks prepared, Check preparation, Preparation of Monthly Financial Statements and Government Filing and any other reports required by management.
 Rent- A- Team Outsourcing – 7th  Flr. PDCP Building, V.A. Rufino St. Salcedo Village, Makati City
Accountant –  Feb. 1999 -  June 2000 - Supervise the whole accounting process, Payroll Checking and Verification, Counter Checking Vouchers, Checks prepared, Check preparation, Preparation of Monthly Financial Statements and Government Filing and any other reports required by clients.  Train newly hired bookkeepers in using Quickbooks Accounting Software.
 Ciper Engineering Corporation – 26th Floor, East Tower Tektite Bldg.  Ortigas Center, Pasig City.
 Accountant -   May 1995 – January  1999 - Supervise the whole accounting process, Payroll Checking and Verification, Counter Checking Vouchers, Checks prepared, Check preparation, Preparation of Monthly Financial Statements and Government Filing and any other reports required by management.
Sycip, Gorres & Velayo – SGV Bldg. I – Ayala Avenue, Makati City
Field Auditor -  March 1994 – April 1995 – Field Audit – Gathering data from clients books to be able to determined the accuracy of their recording process.
Skills
Well versed in using MS Office, Quickbooks Accounting, Peachtree Accounting, MYOB Accounting, Computerized Bookkeeping.