TRACY ANN MONTANO AGAS 
SENIOR FINANCE ADMINISTRATOR 
09959457369 | treyceyann@gmail.com | Makati City 
 
 
 
Detail-focused accounting professional with 7+ years of experience managing complex financial operations, 
including VIP and high-profile accounts. Skilled in advanced accounting, financial reporting, and 
confidentiality compliance. Currently specializing in international accounting with a focus on UK processes, 
delivering accurate results in fast-paced, high-demand environments. 
 
 
 
 
MS Office Excel, Word, PowerPoint  
Financial Reporting  
 
Disbursement Processing 
 
Microsoft Dynamics NAV 5.0 
 
General Ledger Reconciliation 
Revenue Processing 
Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central Financial Statement Preparation 
Excellent analytical skills 
Oracle NetSuite 
 
 
 
IQ EQ Philippines Inc | Support | Senior Finance Administrator 
September 22, 2025 - Present 
Manages end-to-end Accounts Payable and Accounts Receivable processes, ensuring timely and accurate 
payments to suppliers and proper application of client collections. Performs comprehensive bank 
reconciliations, identifying discrepancies and ensuring alignment between system records and bank statements. 
Updates and maintains financial schedules, including intercompany balances, cash balances, and other key 
reconciliation reports to support accurate financial reporting. Ensures compliance with internal controls, finance 
policies, and reporting standards while supporting continuous process improvement within the finance function. 
 
PJ Lhuillier Group of Companies | Office of the President | Accounting Section Head 
July 2024 – September 19, 2025 
Oversee accounts payable processes, ensuring accuracy and efficiency in payment processing. Review of 
revenue set-up, collections entry and manual SI. Prepare and review of financial statements (Balance Sheet, 
P&L Statement, Cash flow Statement, bank recon and other related account schedules). 
 
PJ Lhuillier Group of Companies | Office of the President | Accounting Associate 
May 16, 2022 – June 30, 2024 
Processing of utilities payments and billing from vendors. Set-up of revenue and recording of collection ensures 
that all paid customers have receipt. Financial statement preparation this includes bank reconciliation, lapsing 
schedules and analysis of each chart of accounts. 
 
PJ Lhuillier Group of Companies | Shared Services Center | Accounting Assistant 
May 20 2019 - May 15, 2022 
Record revenue and collections and check if actual collections have been made to the bank account. Preparing 
of statement of accounts to collect from customers and maintain inventory of items. Processing of payments to 
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERTISE 
WORK EXPERIENCE 

Vendor, pay-out to scholars, reimbursement and cash advance for employees. Preparing of EWT and input VAT 
summary including encoding in BIR relief. 
 
Fiberworld Inc | Accounting Assistant 
November 2018 - April 2019 
Check the printed sales invoice and delivery receipt versus the actual order form of customers. Coordinate with 
sales department for the collections, record collections from customers and submit report for the aged 
receivables. 
 
 
 
 
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy 
(2013-2018) 
Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng Valenzuela 
 
 
 
 
“I hereby certify that the contents here are verifiable, true, and written correctly to the best of my 
knowledge.” 
 
 
Tracy Ann M. Agas 
                                                                                                                           Applicant 
EDUCATION